# 以下是筛选出的与心血管疾病（CVD）相关的文献，保留英文标题，并以中文呈现

## 使用模型deepseek-chat

user: 

201. Environ Sci Technol. 2013 Aug 20;47(16):9414-23. doi: 10.1021/es4027248. Epub 
2013 Jul 30.

The triggering of myocardial infarction by fine particles is enhanced when 
particles are enriched in secondary species.

Rich DQ(1), Özkaynak H, Crooks J, Baxter L, Burke J, Ohman-Strickland P, 
Thevenet-Morrison K, Kipen HM, Zhang J, Kostis JB, Lunden M, Hodas N, Turpin BJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, 265 Crittenden 
Blvd, CU420644, Rochester, New York 14642, USA. david_rich@urmc.rochester.edu

Previous studies have reported an increased risk of myocardial infarction (MI) 
associated with acute increases in PM concentration. Recently, we reported that 
MI/fine particle (PM2.5) associations may be limited to transmural infarctions. 
In this study, we retained data on hospital discharges with a primary diagnosis 
of acute myocardial infarction (using International Classification of Diseases 
ninth Revision [ICD-9] codes), for those admitted January 1, 2004 to December 
31, 2006, who were ≥ 18 years of age, and were residents of New Jersey at the 
time of their MI. We excluded MI with a diagnosis of a previous MI and MI coded 
as a subendocardial infarction, leaving n = 1563 transmural infarctions 
available for analysis. We coupled these health data with PM2.5 species 
concentrations predicted by the Community Multiscale Air Quality chemical 
transport model, ambient PM2.5 concentrations, and used the same case-crossover 
methods to evaluate whether the relative odds of transmural MI associated with 
increased PM2.5 concentration is modified by the PM2.5 composition/mixture 
(i.e., mass fractions of sulfate, nitrate, elemental carbon, organic carbon, and 
ammonium). We found the largest relative odds estimates on the days with the 
highest tertile of sulfate mass fraction (OR = 1.13; 95% CI = 1.00, 1.27), 
nitrate mass fraction (OR = 1.18; 95% CI = 0.98, 1.35), and ammonium mass 
fraction (OR = 1.13; 95% CI = 1.00 1.28), and the lowest tertile of EC mass 
fraction (OR = 1.17; 95% CI = 1.03, 1.34). Air pollution mixtures on these days 
were enhanced in pollutants formed through atmospheric chemistry (i.e., 
secondary PM2.5) and depleted in primary pollutants (e.g., EC). When mixtures 
were laden with secondary PM species (sulfate, nitrate, and/or organics), we 
observed larger relative odds of myocardial infarction associated with increased 
PM2.5 concentrations. Further work is needed to confirm these findings and 
examine which secondary PM2.5 component(s) is/are responsible for an acute MI 
response.

DOI: 10.1021/es4027248
PMCID: PMC3856764
PMID: 23819750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Environ Health. 2013 Jun 19;12:50. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-12-50.

Using PM2.5 concentrations to estimate the health burden from solid fuel 
combustion, with application to Irish and Scottish homes.

Galea KS(1), Hurley JF, Cowie H, Shafrir AL, Sánchez Jiménez A, Semple S, Ayres 
JG, Coggins M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Exposure Science, Institute of Occupational Medicine (IOM), 
Edinburgh, UK. karen.galea@iom-world.org

BACKGROUND: This study estimates the potential population health burden from 
exposure to combustion-derived particulate air pollution in domestic settings in 
Ireland and Scotland.
METHODS: The study focused on solid fuel combustion used for heating and the use 
of gas for cooking. PM2.5 (particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter < 2.5 
μm) was used as the pollutant mixture indicator. Measured PM2.5 concentrations 
in homes using solid fuels were adjusted for other sources of PM2.5 by 
subtracting PM2.5 concentrations in homes using gas for cooking but not solid 
fuel heating. Health burden was estimated for exposure indoors 6 pm - midnight, 
or all day (24-hour), by combining estimated attributable annual PM2.5 exposures 
with (i) selected epidemiological functions linking PM2.5 with mortality and 
morbidity (involving some re-scaling from PM10 to PM2.5, and adjustments 
'translating' from concentrations to exposures) and (ii) on the current 
population exposed and background rates of morbidity and mortality.
RESULTS: PM2.5 concentrations in coal and wood burning homes were similar to 
homes using gas for cooking, used here as a baseline (mean 24-hr PM2.5 
concentrations 8.6 μg/m3) and so health impacts were not calculated. 
Concentrations of PM2.5 in homes using peat were higher (24-hr mean 15.6 μg/m3); 
however, health impacts were calculated for the exposed population in Ireland 
only; the proportion exposed in Scotland was very small. The assessment for 
winter evening exposure (estimated annual average increase of 2.11 μg/m3 over 
baseline) estimated 21 additional annual cases of all-cause mortality, 55 of 
chronic bronchitis, and 30,100 and 38,000 annual lower respiratory symptom days 
(including cough) and restricted activity days respectively.
CONCLUSION: New methods for estimating the potential health burden of 
combustion-generated pollution from solid fuels in Irish and Scottish homes are 
provided. The methodology involves several approximations and uncertainties but 
is consistent with a wider movement towards quantifying risks in PM2.5 
irrespective of source. Results show an effect of indoor smoke from using peat 
(but not wood or coal) for heating and cooking; but they do not suggest that 
this is a major public health issue.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-12-50
PMCID: PMC3702424
PMID: 23782423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Eur J Intern Med. 2013 Jun;24(4):295-302. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2013.04.001. Epub 
2013 May 4.

Air particulate matter and cardiovascular disease: a narrative review.

Martinelli N(1), Olivieri O, Girelli D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Internal Medicine B, University of Verona, 
Italy. nicola.martinelli@univr.it

Consistent evidences from both epidemiological and experimental studies have 
demonstrated that short- and long-term exposure to particulate matter (PM), in 
particular to the finest particles (i.e. airborne PM with aerodynamic diameter 
less than 2.5 μm, PM2.5), is associated with cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality. PM concentration has been linked with several clinical manifestations 
of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), including myocardial infarction, stroke, heart 
failure, arrhythmias, and venous thromboembolism. Noteworthy, some groups of 
subjects, like elderly, diabetics, or those with known coronary artery disease, 
appear specifically susceptible to the harmful effects triggered by PM exposure. 
Although the PM-related risk for a single individual appears relatively low, the 
PM-related population attributable risk is impressive. Recent studies indicate 
that the PM-CVD relationship is likely more complex than a mere quantitative 
association between overall PM concentration and disease risk. Indeed, the 
biological effects of PM may vary in function of both the aerodynamic diameter 
and the chemical composition. Moreover, it has been shown that the influence of 
air pollution on health is not limited to PM. Indeed, other gaseous pollutants 
may play an independent role in CVD, suggesting the need to develop 
multi-pollutant preventive approaches. Causality has been recently strongly 
supported by observations showing reduced CVD mortality after coordinated 
community policies resulting in lowering PM exposure at population level. An 
in-depth knowledge on the heterogeneous sources, chemical compounds, and 
biological effects of PM may help to propose more accurate and clinically 
effective recommendations for this important and modifiable factor contributing 
to CVD burden.

Copyright © 2013 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2013.04.001
PMID: 23647842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Oct 3;168(3):2831-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.082. Epub 
2013 Apr 19.

Synergy between particles and nitrogen dioxide on emergency hospital admissions 
for cardiac diseases in Hong Kong.

Yu IT(1), Qiu H, Wang X, Tian L, Tse LA.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China. Electronic address: 
iyu@cuhk.edu.hk.

BACKGROUND: Ambient air pollution is a complex mixture of particles and gaseous 
pollutants. Epidemiological studies are moving toward a multipollutant approach, 
requiring an understanding of possible interactions among the pollutants. We aim 
to estimate the joint effects of particles with an aerodynamic diameter less 
than 10 μm (PM10) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) on emergency hospital admissions 
for cardiac diseases, and to explore the possible interactions between PM10 and 
NO2.
METHODS: We collected daily time series data from 1998 to 2007 on emergency 
hospital admissions for cardiac diseases in Hong Kong, as well as PM10 and NO2 
concentrations. Generalized additive Poisson model was used to examine the 
relationship between air pollution and hospital admissions. We then used three 
parallel time series approaches (bivariate response surface model, joint effect 
model and parametric stratified model) to explore the possible interactions 
between PM10 and NO2.
RESULTS: Results showed the greatest joint effect of PM10 and NO2 on emergency 
cardiac hospitalizations when PM10 and NO2 concentrations were both at high 
levels. The effect of PM10 was significantly greatest on the days with high NO2 
level, and vice versa. A 10 μg/m(3) increase of lag0 PM10 and NO2 was associated 
with an increase of emergency cardiac hospitalizations by 0.55% (95% CI: 
0.29-0.80%) and 1.20% (95% CI: 0.87-1.53%) respectively, when the other 
pollutant was at high level.
CONCLUSIONS: We found consistent synergistic interaction between PM10 and NO2 on 
emergency cardiac hospitalizations in Hong Kong. These findings contribute to 
the development of a new paradigm for multipollutant air quality management.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.082
PMID: 23608392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2013 Mar 7;10(3):963-79. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph10030963.

Lung cancer risk from occupational and environmental radon and role of smoking 
in two Czech nested case-control studies.

Tomasek L(1).

Author information:
(1)National Radiation Prtotection Institute, Bartoskova 28, Prague, Czech 
Republic. ladislav.tomasek@suro.cz

The aim of the present study was to evaluate the risk of lung cancer from 
combined exposure to radon and smoking. Methodologically, it is based on 
case-control studies nested within two Czech cohort studies of nearly 11,000 
miners followed-up for mortality in 1952-2010 and nearly 12,000 inhabitants 
exposed to high levels of radon in homes, with mortality follow-up in 1960-2010. 
In addition to recorded radon exposure, these studies use information on smoking 
collected from the subjects or their relatives. A total of 1,029 and 370 cases 
with smoking information have been observed in the occupational and 
environmental (residential) studies, respectively. Three or four control 
subjects have been individually matched to cases according to sex, year of 
birth, and age. The combined effect from radon and smoking is analyzed in terms 
of geometric mixture models of which the additive and multiplicative models are 
special cases. The resulting models are relatively close to the additive 
interaction (mixing parameter 0.2 and 0.3 in the occupational and residential 
studies, respectively). The impact of the resulting model in the residential 
radon study is illustrated by estimates of lifetime risk in hypothetical 
populations of smokers and non-smokers. In comparison to the multiplicative risk 
model, the lifetime risk from the best geometric mixture model is considerably 
higher, particularly in the non-smoking population.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph10030963
PMCID: PMC3709297
PMID: 23470882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Environ Pollut. 2013 Dec;183:30-9. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2012.12.022. Epub 2013 
Jan 29.

A cohort study of intra-urban variations in volatile organic compounds and 
mortality, Toronto, Canada.

Villeneuve PJ(1), Jerrett M, Su J, Burnett RT, Chen H, Brook J, Wheeler AJ, 
Cakmak S, Goldberg MS.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Division, Health Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: Paul_Villeneuve@hc-sc.gc.ca.

This study investigated associations between long-term exposure to ambient 
volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and mortality. 58,760 Toronto residents 
(≥35 years of age) were selected from tax filings and followed from 1982 to 
2004. Death information was extracted using record linkage to national mortality 
data. Land-use regression surfaces for benzene, n-hexane, and total hydrocarbons 
were generated from sampling campaigns in 2002 and 2004 and assigned to 
residential addresses in 1982. Cox regression was used to estimate relationships 
between each VOC and non-accidental, cardiovascular, and cancer mortality. 
Positive associations were observed for each VOC. In multi-pollutant models the 
benzene and total hydrocarbon signals were strongest for cancer. The hazard 
ratio for cancer that corresponded to an increase in the interquartile range of 
benzene (0.13 μg/m(3)) was 1.06 (95% CI = 1.02-1.11). Our findings suggest 
ambient concentrations of VOCs were associated with cancer mortality, and that 
these exposures did not confound our previously reported associations between 
NO2 and cardiovascular mortality.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2012.12.022
PMID: 23369806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Zhonghua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi. 2012 Dec;30(12):902-7.

[Time-series analysis on effect of air pollution on stroke mortality in Tianjin, 
China].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang DZ(1), Gu Q, Jiang GH, Yang DY, Zhang H, Song GD, Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention, Tianjin 300011, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of air pollution on stroke mortality in 
Tianjin, China, and to provide basis for stroke control and prevention.
METHODS: Total data of mortality surveillance were collected by Tianjin Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention. Meteorological data and atmospheric 
pollution data were from Tianjin Meteorological Bureau and Tianjin Environmental 
Monitoring Center, respectively. Generalized additive Poisson regression model 
was used in time-series analysis on the relationship between air pollution and 
stroke mortality in Tianjin. Single-pollutant analysis and multi-pollutant 
analysis were performed after adjustment for confounding factors such as 
meteorological factors, long-term trend of death, "days of the week" effect and 
population.
RESULTS: The crude death rates of stroke in Tianjin were from 136.67 in 2001 to 
160.01/100000 in 2009, with an escalating trend (P = 0.000), while the 
standardized mortality ratios of stroke in Tianjin were from 138.36 to 
99.14/100000, with a declining trend (P = 0.000). An increase of 10 µg/m³ in 
daily average concentrations of atmospheric SO₂, NO₂ and PM₁₀ led to 1.0105 
(95%CI: 1.0060 ∼ 1.0153), 1.0197 (95%CI: 1.0149 ∼ 1.0246) and 1.0064 (95%CI: 
1.0052 ∼ 1.0077), respectively, in relative risks of stroke mortality. SO₂ 
effect peaked after 1-day exposure, while NO₂ and PM₁₀ effects did within 1 day.
CONCLUSION: Air pollution in Tianjin may increase the risk of stroke mortality 
in the population and induce acute onset of stroke. It is necessary to carry out 
air pollution control and allocate health resources rationally to reduce the 
hazard of stroke mortality.

PMID: 23290642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2013 Mar 1;39(2):195-203. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.3324. 
Epub 2012 Oct 2.

Joint effects of job strain and road-traffic and occupational noise on 
myocardial infarction.

Selander J(1), Bluhm G, Nilsson M, Hallqvist J, Theorell T, Willix P, Pershagen 
G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Unit of Occupational Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. jenny.selander@ki.se

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the joint effect of job strain 
and both road-traffic and occupational noise on myocardial infarction (MI).
METHOD: We conducted a population based case-control study on first time MI in 
Stockholm County during 1992-1994. Participants answered a questionnaire and 
underwent a physical examination. Residential road-traffic noise exposure was 
based on residential history combined with information on traffic intensity and 
distance to nearby roads. Occupational noise exposure was assessed by 
occupational history combined with a job-exposure matrix derived from 
measurements. Job strain was based on questions regarding psychological demands 
and decision latitude. A total of 3050 study participants (1252 cases and 1798 
controls) were included in the study.
RESULTS: An increased risk of MI was indicated among participants exposed to 
road-traffic noise [odds ratio (OR) 1.23, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 
1.01-1.51], occupational noise (OR 1.17, 95% CI 0.98-1.41) and job strain (OR 
1.39, 95% CI 1.17-1.65). Participants exposed to one, two, or three of these 
factors showed an increased risk (OR 1.16, 95% CI 0.97-1.40, OR 1.57, 95% CI 
1.24-1.98, and OR 2.27, 95% CI 1.41-3.64, respectively). Exposure to two or 
three of these factors occurred among about 20% of the controls.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that exposure to a combination of noise 
exposure and job strain increases the risk of MI substantially. Such exposures 
affect a considerable part of the population, which has relevance for 
prioritization of preventative measures.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.3324
PMID: 23032870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Environ Health. 2012 Sep 14;11:64. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-11-64.

Risk assessment of PM(2.5) to child residents in Brazilian Amazon region with 
biofuel production.

de Oliveira BF(1), Ignotti E, Artaxo P, Saldiva PH, Junger WL, Hacon S.

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Environment Post-graduation, National School of Public 
Health at Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. beatrizenf@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Exposure to fine fractions of particulate matter (PM(2.5)) is 
associated with increased hospital admissions and mortality for respiratory and 
cardiovascular disease in children and the elderly. This study aims to estimate 
the toxicological risk of PM(2.5) from biomass burning in children and 
adolescents between the age of 6 and 14 in Tangará da Serra, a municipality of 
Subequatorial Brazilian Amazon.
METHODS: Risk assessment methodology was applied to estimate the risk quotient 
in two scenarios of exposure according to local seasonality. The potential dose 
of PM(2.5) was estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation, stratifying the 
population by age, gender, asthma and Body Mass Index (BMI).
RESULTS: Male asthmatic children under the age of 8 at normal body rate had the 
highest risk quotient among the subgroups. The general potential average dose of 
PM(2.5) was 1.95 μg/kg.day (95% CI: 1.62 - 2.27) during the dry scenario and 
0.32 μg/kg.day (95% CI: 0.29 - 0.34) in the rainy scenario. During the dry 
season, children and adolescents showed a toxicological risk to PM(2.5) of 2.07 
μg/kg.day (95% CI: 1.85 - 2 .30).
CONCLUSIONS: Children and adolescents living in the Subequatorial Brazilian 
Amazon region were exposed to high levels of PM(2.5) resulting in toxicological 
risk for this multi-pollutant. The toxicological risk quotients of children in 
this region were comparable or higher to children living in metropolitan regions 
with PM(2.5) air pollution above the recommended limits to human health.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-11-64
PMCID: PMC3465199
PMID: 22978271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Int J Environ Health Res. 2013;23(3):205-14. doi: 10.1080/09603123.2012.713096. 
Epub 2012 Aug 17.

Association between ambient particulate matter and daily cause-specific 
mortality in Tanggu, Tianjin Binhai New Area, China.

Wang T(1), Li GX, Sun J, Buys N, Liu HM, Liu MF, Ni M, Li BW, Liang XF, Pan X.

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Binhai New Area Tanggu Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Tianjin 300450, China.

The aim of the study was to determine whether the area of Tanggu, Tianjin Binhai 
New Economic Developing Area, China, is subject to similar effects of ambient 
particulate matter less than 10 micrometres in aerodynamic diameter (PM10) 
similar to other areas of China. This study was designed to investigate 
cause-specific mortality risks associated with air pollution in this 
geographical region. The present study used a time-series analysis to explore 
the relationship between PM10 and the cause-specific mortalities for 
non-accidental, cardiovascular, and cardiopulmonary mortality from 1 January 
2006 to 31 December 2010. A 10 μg/m(3) increment of PM10 was associated with a 
1.02% (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.48, 1.56) increase in cardiovascular 
mortality, and a 0.88% (95% CI: 0.36, 1.39) increase in cardiopulmonary 
mortality. In addition, the effects from PM10 appear to be consistent with 
multi-pollutant models. The results show that there are strong associations 
between daily cardiovascular and cardiopulmonary mortality and ambient PM10 
exposure.

DOI: 10.1080/09603123.2012.713096
PMID: 22897106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2012 Sep;16(9):1149-61. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.11.0666.

Adverse respiratory effects of outdoor air pollution in the elderly.

Bentayeb M(1), Simoni M, Baiz N, Norback D, Baldacci S, Maio S, Viegi G, 
Annesi-Maesano I; Geriatric Study in Europe on Health Effects of Air Quality in 
Nursing Homes Group.

Author information:
(1)Epidémiologie des Maladies Allergiques et Respiratoires, Unité Mixte de 
Recherche S 707, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, 
Paris, France. bentayeb@u707.jussieu.fr

Compared to the rest of the population, the elderly are potentially highly 
susceptible to the effects of outdoor air pollution due to normal and 
pathological ageing. The purpose of the present review was to gather data on the 
effects on respiratory health of outdoor air pollution in the elderly, on whom 
data are scarce. These show statistically significant short-term and chronic 
adverse effects of various outdoor air pollutants on cardiopulmonary morbidity 
and mortality in the elderly. When exposed to air pollution, the elderly 
experience more hospital admissions for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) and higher COPD mortality than others. Previous studies also 
indicate that research on the health effects of air pollution in the elderly has 
been affected by methodological problems in terms of exposure and health effect 
assessments. Few pollutants have been considered, and exposure assessment has 
been based mostly on background air pollution and more rarely on objective 
measurements and modelling. Significant progress needs to be made through the 
development of 'hybrid' models utilising the strengths of information on 
exposure in various environments to several air pollutants, coupled with daily 
activity exposure patterns. Investigations of chronic effects of air pollution 
and of multi-pollutant mixtures are needed to better understand the role of air 
pollution in the elderly. Lastly, smoking, occupation, comorbidities, treatment 
and the neighbourhood context should be considered as confounders or modifiers 
of such a role. In this context, the underlying biological, physiological and 
toxicological mechanisms need to be explored to better understand the phenomenon 
through a multidisciplinary approach.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.11.0666
PMID: 22871325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2012;34(2):130-9. doi: 10.1159/000339680. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Ambient air pollutants and acute case-fatality of cerebro-cardiovascular events: 
Takashima Stroke and AMI Registry, Japan (1988-2004).

Turin TC(1), Kita Y, Rumana N, Nakamura Y, Ueda K, Takashima N, Sugihara H, 
Morita Y, Ichikawa M, Hirose K, Nitta H, Okayama A, Miura K, Ueshima H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alta., Canada. 
turin.chowdhury@ucalgary.ca

BACKGROUND: Apart from the conventional risk factors, cerebro-cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) are also reported to be associated with air pollution, thus 
lowering the level of exposure might contribute in prevention activities to 
reduce the associated adverse outcomes. Though few studies conducted in Japan 
have reported on the CVD mortality but none have explored the effect of air 
pollutant exposure on the acute case-fatality of CVD. We investigated the 
effects of air pollution exposure on acute case-fatality of stroke and acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI) in a setting where pollutant levels are rather low.
METHODS: We leveraged the data from the Takashima Stroke and AMI Registry, which 
covers a population of approximately 55,000 in Takashima County located in 
central Japan. The study period of 6,210 days (16 years, leap years also taken 
into account) were divided into quartiles of daily average pollutant 
concentration; suspended particulate matter (SPM), sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), 
nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)), and photochemical oxidants (Ox). The stroke and AMI 
events were categorized to corresponding quartiles based on the pollution levels 
of the onset day. To study the effects of air pollutants, we estimated the 
fatality rate ratio across quartiles of the pollutants where the lowest quartile 
served as the reference.
RESULTS: There were 307 (men: 153 and women: 154) fatal stroke cases within 28 
days of onset among the 2,038 first ever stroke during 1988-2004. In the same 
period, there were 142 (men: 94 and women: 54) fatal AMI cases within 28 days of 
onset among the 429 first ever AMI events. The mean of the measured pollutant 
levels were as follows: SPM 26.9 µg/m(3), SO(2) 3.9 ppb, NO(2) 16.0 ppb, and Ox 
28.4 ppb. Among the pollutants, higher levels of NO(2) showed increased fatality 
risk. In multi-pollutant model, the highest quartile of NO(2) was associated 
with 60% higher stroke case-fatality risk in comparison to lowest quartile of 
NO(2). In the fully adjusted model the fatality-rate ratio was 1.65 (95% CI 
1.06-2.57). This association was more prominent among stroke subtype of cerebral 
infarction. Other pollutant levels did not show any association with stroke or 
AMI case-fatality.
CONCLUSION: We observed association between NO(2) levels, an index of traffic 
related air pollution, with the acute case-fatality of stroke, especially 
cerebral infarction in our study population. Further studies are needed in 
different regions to determine the association between ambient air pollutants 
and acute cardiovascular fatalities.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339680
PMID: 22868897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Cad Saude Publica. 2012 Jul;28(7):1319-24. doi: 10.1590/s0102-311x2012000700010.

Environmental pollutants and stroke-related hospital admissions.

Nascimento LF(1), Francisco JB, Patto MB, Antunes AM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina, Universidade de Taubaté, Brasil. 
luiz.nascimento@feg.unesp.br

Some effects of environmental pollution on human health are known, especially 
those affecting the respiratory and cardiovascular systems. The current study 
aimed to estimate these effects on the production of hospital admissions for 
stroke. This was an ecological study using hospital admissions data in São José 
dos Campos, São Paulo State, Brazil, with diagnosis of stroke, from January 1, 
2007, to April 30, 2008. The target pollutants were particulate matter, sulfur 
dioxide, and ozone. Use of a Poisson linear regression model showed that 
same-day exposure to particulate matter was associated with hospitalization for 
stroke (RR = 1.013; 95%CI: 1.001-1.025). An increase of 10 µg/m(3) in this 
pollutant increased the risk of hospitalization by 12% (RR = 1.137; 95%CI: 
1.014-1.276). In the multi-pollutant model, it was thus possible to identify 
particulate matter as associated with hospitalization for stroke in a 
medium-sized city like São José dos Campos.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2012000700010
PMID: 22729262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Inhal Toxicol. 2012 Apr;24(5):270-87. doi: 10.3109/08958378.2012.667455.

Identification of chemical components of combustion emissions that affect 
pro-atherosclerotic vascular responses in mice.

Seilkop SK(1), Campen MJ, Lund AK, McDonald JD, Mauderly JL.

Author information:
(1)SKS Consulting Services, Siler City, NC 27344, USA. skseilkop@centurylink.net

Erratum in
    Inhal Toxicol. 2012 Oct;24(12):868.

Combustion emissions cause pro-atherosclerotic responses in apolipoprotein 
E-deficient (ApoE/⁻) mice, but the causal components of these complex mixtures 
are unresolved. In studies previously reported, ApoE⁻/⁻ mice were exposed by 
inhalation 6 h/day for 50 consecutive days to multiple dilutions of diesel or 
gasoline exhaust, wood smoke, or simulated "downwind" coal emissions. In this 
study, the analysis of the combined four-study database using the Multiple 
Additive Regression Trees (MART) data mining approach to determine putative 
causal exposure components regardless of combustion source is reported. Over 700 
physical-chemical components were grouped into 45 predictor variables. Response 
variables measured in aorta included endothelin-1, vascular endothelin growth 
factor, three matrix metalloproteinases (3, 7, 9), metalloproteinase inhibitor 
2, heme-oxygenase-1, and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. Two or three 
predictors typically explained most of the variation in response among the 
experimental groups. Overall, sulfur dioxide, ammonia, nitrogen oxides, and 
carbon monoxide were most highly predictive of responses, although their 
rankings differed among the responses. Consistent with the earlier finding that 
filtration of particles had little effect on responses, particulate components 
ranked third to seventh in predictive importance for the eight response 
variables. MART proved useful for identifying putative causal components, 
although the small number of pollution mixtures (4) can provide only suggestive 
evidence of causality. The potential independent causal contributions of these 
gases to the vascular responses, as well as possible interactions among them and 
other components of complex pollutant mixtures, warrant further evaluation.

DOI: 10.3109/08958378.2012.667455
PMCID: PMC3606057
PMID: 22486345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. BMJ. 2011 Sep 20;343:d5531. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d5531.

The effects of hourly differences in air pollution on the risk of myocardial 
infarction: case crossover analysis of the MINAP database.

Bhaskaran K(1), Hajat S, Armstrong B, Haines A, Herrett E, Wilkinson P, Smeeth 
L.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
krishnan.bhaskaran@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2011 Sep 20;343:d5814. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d5814.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate associations between air pollution levels and 
myocardial infarction (MI) on short timescales, with data at an hourly temporal 
resolution.
DESIGN: Time stratified case crossover study linking clinical data from the 
Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP) with PM(10), ozone, CO, 
NO(2), and SO(2) data from the UK National Air Quality Archive. Pollution 
effects were investigated with delays (lags) of 1-6, 7-12, 13-18, 19-24, and 
25-72 hours in both single and multi-pollutant models, adjusted for ambient 
temperature, relative humidity, circulating levels of influenza and respiratory 
syncytial virus, day of week, holidays, and residual seasonality within calendar 
month strata.
SETTING: Population based study in 15 conurbations in England and Wales.
SUBJECTS: 79,288 diagnoses of myocardial infarction recorded over the period 
2003-6.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Excess risk of myocardial infarction per 10 µg/m(3) 
increase in pollutant level.
RESULTS: In single pollutant models, PM(10) and NO(2) levels were associated 
with a very short term increase in risk of myocardial infarction 1-6 hours later 
(excess risks 1.2% (95% confidence interval 0.3 to 2.1) and 1.1% (0.3 to 1.8) 
respectively per 10 μg/m(3) increase); the effects persisted in multi-pollutant 
models, though with only weak evidence of an independent PM(10) effect (P = 
0.05). The immediate risk increases were followed by reductions in risk at 
longer lags: we found no evidence of any net excess risk associated with the 
five pollutants studied over a 72 hour period after exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher levels of PM(10) and NO(2), which are typically markers of 
traffic related pollution, seem to be associated with transiently increased risk 
of myocardial infarction 1-6 hours after exposure, but later reductions in risk 
suggest that air pollution may be associated with bringing events forward in 
time ("short-term displacement") rather than increasing overall risk. The well 
established effect of air pollution on cardiorespiratory mortality may not be 
mediated through increasing the acute risk of myocardial infarction, but through 
another mechanism.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d5531
PMCID: PMC3176903
PMID: 21933824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the unified competing interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: KB, EH, and LS 
had support for the submitted work from the British Heart Foundation, the 
Garfield Weston Trust, and the Wellcome Trust respectively; no financial 
relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work in the previous three years; no other relationships or activities 
that could appear to have influenced the submitted work


216. Risk Anal. 2012 Feb;32(2):237-49. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01660.x. Epub 
2011 Jul 30.

Current and future particulate-matter-related mortality risks in the United 
States from aviation emissions during landing and takeoff.

Levy JI(1), Woody M, Baek BH, Shankar U, Arunachalam S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Boston University School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA. jonlevy@bu.edu

Demand for air travel is projected to increase in the upcoming years, with a 
corresponding influence on emissions, air quality, and public health. The 
trajectory of health impacts would be influenced by not just emissions growth, 
but also changes in nonaviation ambient concentrations that influence secondary 
fine particulate matter (PM(2.5) ) formation, population growth and aging, and 
potential shifts in PM(2.5) concentration-response functions (CRFs). However, 
studies to date have not systematically evaluated the individual and joint 
contributions of these factors to health risk trajectories. In this study, we 
simulated emissions during landing and takeoff from aircraft at 99 airports 
across the United States for 2005 and for a 2025 flight activity projection 
scenario. We applied the Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) model with the 
Speciated Modeled Attainment Test (SMAT) to determine the contributions of these 
emissions to ambient concentrations, including scenarios with 2025 aircraft 
emissions and 2005 nonaviation air quality. We combined CMAQ outputs with 
PM(2.5) mortality CRFs and population projections, and evaluated the influence 
of changing emissions, nonaviation concentrations, and population factors. Given 
these scenarios, aviation-related health impacts would increase by a factor of 
6.1 from 2005 to 2025, with a factor of 2.1 attributable to emissions, a factor 
of 1.3 attributable to population factors, and a factor of 2.3 attributable to 
changing nonaviation concentrations which enhance secondary PM(2.5) formation. 
Our study emphasizes that the public health burden of aviation emissions would 
be significantly influenced by the joint effects of flight activity increases, 
nonaviation concentration changes, and population growth and aging.

© 2011 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01660.x
PMID: 21801192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Nov;119(11):1583-9. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1003323. Epub 
2011 Jul 14.

A toxicogenomic comparison of primary and photochemically altered air pollutant 
mixtures.

Rager JE(1), Lichtveld K, Ebersviller S, Smeester L, Jaspers I, Sexton KG, Fry 
RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Gillings School of 
Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina, USA.

Comment in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Nov;119(11):A488. doi: 10.1289/ehp.119-a488b.

BACKGROUND: Air pollution contributes significantly to global increases in 
mortality, particularly within urban environments. Limited knowledge exists on 
the mechanisms underlying health effects resulting from exposure to pollutant 
mixtures similar to those occurring in ambient air. In order to clarify the 
mechanisms underlying exposure effects, toxicogenomic analyses are used to 
evaluate genomewide transcript responses and map these responses to molecular 
networks.
OBJECTIVES: We compared responses induced by exposure to primary pollutants and 
photochemically altered (PCA) pollutant mixtures representing urban atmospheres 
to test our hypothesis that exposures to PCA pollutants would show increased 
modulation of inflammation-associated genes and pathways relative to primary air 
pollutants.
METHODS: We used an outdoor environmental irradiation chamber to expose human 
lung epithelial cells to mixtures representing either primary or PCA pollutants 
for 4 hr. Transcriptional changes were assessed using microarrays and confirmed 
using quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction 
(qRT-PCR) on a subset of genes.
RESULTS: We found a large difference in the cellular responses to the two 
pollutant exposures: Primary air pollutants altered the expression levels of 19 
genes, whereas PCA pollutants altered 709 genes. Functional and molecular 
analyses of the altered genes revealed novel pathways, such as hepatocyte 
nuclear factor 4α, potentially regulating the pollutant responses. Chemical 
component analysis characterized and confirmed the photochemical transformation 
of primary air pollutants into PCA air pollutants.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that the photochemical transformation of primary 
air pollutants produces altered mixtures that cause significantly greater 
biological effects than the primary pollutants themselves. These findings 
suggest that studying individual air pollutants or primary pollutant mixtures 
may greatly underestimate the adverse health effects caused by air pollution.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1003323
PMCID: PMC3226493
PMID: 21757418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


218. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Aug;31(8):845-9.

[Association between ambient air pollution and hospital emergency room visits 
for respiratory diseases: a case-crossover study].

[Article in Chinese]

Su C(1), Guo YM, Franck U, Pan XC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health 
Science Center, Peking University, Beijing 100191, China.

OBJECTIVE: Using case-crossover design to explore the association between 
ambient air pollution and the hospital emergency room visits for respiratory 
diseases (International Classification of Diseases, tenth vision ICD-10: 
J00-J99) in Beijing, China.
METHODS: Data regarding the daily hospital emergency room visits of the 
respiratory diseases (ICD-10: J00-J99) were obtained in 2004.01.01 - 2005.12.31, 
from the Peking University Third Hospital and data on relevant air pollution and 
meteorological factors from the local municipal environmental monitoring center 
and meteorology bureau of Beijing, respectively. Time-stratified case-crossover 
technique was used to evaluate their relationships. Results from the 
bi-directional control sampling approach were compared with unidirectional 
approach.
RESULTS: Using a unidirectional control sampling approach, the results obtained 
from a conditional logistic regression model (multi-pollutant model) after 
adjusting for meteorological variables, showed that the ORs of the hospital 
emergency room visits for the respiratory diseases associated with each 10 
µg/m(3) increment of PM(10), SO(2), NO(2) were 1.010 (95%CI: 1.005 - 1.014), 
1.010 (95%CI: 1.001 - 1.018), 0.996 (95%CI: 0.983 - 1.009) respectively. In the 
bi-directional control sampling approach, the ORs were 1.002 (95%CI: 0.998 - 
1.005), 1.011 (95%CI: 1.003 - 1.018), 1.012 (95%CI: 1.001 - 1.022).
CONCLUSION: Results from this study provided evidence that higher levels of 
ambient air pollutants increased the risk of hospital emergency room visits for 
respiratory diseases.

PMID: 21162979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Environ Health Perspect. 2010 Jul;118(7):921-7. doi: 10.1289/ehp.0901207. Epub 
2010 Mar 2.

A comparison of vascular effects from complex and individual air pollutants 
indicates a role for monoxide gases and volatile hydrocarbons.

Campen MJ(1), Lund AK, Doyle-Eisele ML, McDonald JD, Knuckles TL, Rohr AC, 
Knipping EM, Mauderly JL.

Author information:
(1)Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA. 
mcampen@salud.unm.edu

BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence suggests that the systemic vasculature may be a 
target of inhaled pollutants of vehicular origin. We have identified several 
murine markers of vascular toxicity that appear sensitive to inhalation 
exposures to combustion emissions.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine the relative impact of various pollutant 
atmospheres and specific individual components on these markers of altered 
vascular transcription and lipid peroxidation.
METHODS: Apolipoprotein E knockout (ApoE(-/-)) mice were exposed to whole 
combustion emissions (gasoline, diesel, coal, hardwood), biogenically derived 
secondary organic aerosols (SOAs), or prominent combustion-source gases [nitric 
oxide (NO), NO(2), carbon monoxide (CO)] for 6 hr/day for 7 days. Aortas were 
assayed for transcriptional alterations of endothelin-1 (ET-1), matrix 
metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2), 
and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), along with measures of vascular lipid peroxides 
(LPOs) and gelatinase activity.
RESULTS: We noted transcriptional alterations with exposures to gasoline and 
diesel emissions. Interestingly, ET-1 and MMP-9 transcriptional effects could be 
recreated by exposure to CO and NO, but not NO(2) or SOAs. Gelatinase activity 
aligned with levels of volatile hydrocarbons and also monoxide gases. Neither 
gases nor particles induced vascular LPO despite potent effects from whole 
vehicular emissions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this head-to-head comparison of the effects of several 
pollutants and pollutant mixtures, we found an important contribution to 
vascular toxicity from readily bioavailable monoxide gases and possibly from 
volatile hydrocarbons. These data support a role for traffic-related pollutants 
in driving cardiopulmonary morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.0901207
PMCID: PMC2920910
PMID: 20197249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Inhal Toxicol. 2010 Feb;22(3):210-8. doi: 10.3109/08958370903173666.

Concentrated ambient fine particles and not ozone induce a systemic 
interleukin-6 response in humans.

Urch B(1), Speck M, Corey P, Wasserstein D, Manno M, Lukic KZ, Brook JR, Liu L, 
Coull B, Schwartz J, Gold DR, Silverman F.

Author information:
(1)Gage Occupational & Environmental Health Unit, St. Michael's Hospital, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. bruce.urch@utoronto.ca

Epidemiological studies have established significant associations between 
ambient pollutants, including fine particulate matter (PM(2.5)) and ozone 
(O(3)), and cardiopulmonary morbidity and mortality. One mechanism that has been 
proposed is a pulmonary/systemic inflammatory response. Although controlled 
human exposure studies have examined the independent inflammatory responses of 
PM(2.5) and O(3), no studies have previously examined their joint effects. The 
study objective was to examine the independent and combined associations between 
ambient PM(2.5) and O(3) and acute respiratory/inflammatory responses. Using 
their concentrated ambient particle (CAP) facility for PM(2.5), the authors 
studied 10 mild asthmatic and 13 nonasthmatic individuals. The 2-h exposures 
included CAP (range 48-199 microg/m(3)) and filtered air (FA), with/without O(3) 
(120 ppb), in a randomized block design. Response measures included pulmonary 
function and inflammatory indices in induced sputum (interleukin [IL]-6, 
cytology) and blood (IL-6, tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-alpha) measured before 
and after exposures. Three hours post exposure, there was an increase in blood 
levels of IL-6, but only after CAP alone exposures; the IL-6 increase was 
associated with increasing PM(2.5) mass concentration (p = .005). Some 
individuals switched to shallow breathing during CAP+O(3), possibly accounting 
for an attenuation of the resultant blood IL-6 response. Asthmatic and 
nonasthmatic responses were similar. There were no adverse changes in pulmonary 
function or other inflammatory measures. The study demonstrated an acute IL-6 
response to PM(2.5), providing evidence to support the epidemiological findings 
of associations between ambient levels of particles and cardiopulmonary 
morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.3109/08958370903173666
PMCID: PMC4755272
PMID: 20088738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Cardiovasc Ultrasound. 2009 Jun 24;7:30. doi: 10.1186/1476-7120-7-30.

Ozone and cardiovascular injury.

Srebot V(1), Gianicolo EA, Rainaldi G, Trivella MG, Sicari R.

Author information:
(1)CNR, Institute of Clinical Physiology, Pisa, Italy. verasrebot@libero.it

Air pollution is increasingly recognized as an important and modifiable 
determinant of cardiovascular diseases in urban communities. The potential 
detrimental effects are both acute and chronic having a strong impact on 
morbidity and mortality. The acute exposure to pollutants has been linked to 
adverse cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction, heart failure and 
life-threatening arrhythmias. The long-terms effects are related to the lifetime 
risk of death from cardiac causes. The WHO estimates that air pollution is 
responsible for 3 million premature deaths each year. The evidence supporting 
these data is very strong nonetheless, epidemiologic and observational data have 
the main limitation of imprecise measurements. Moreover, the lack of clinical 
experimental models makes it difficult to demonstrate the individual risk. The 
other limitation is related to the lack of a clear mechanism explaining the 
effects of pollution on cardiovascular mortality. In the present review we will 
explore the epidemiological, clinical and experimental evidence of the effects 
of ozone on cardiovascular diseases. The pathophysiologic consequences of air 
pollutant exposures have been extensively investigated in pulmonary systems, and 
it is clear that some of the major components of air pollution (e.g. ozone and 
particulate matter) can initiate and exacerbate lung disease in humans 1. It is 
possible that pulmonary oxidant stress mediated by particulate matter and/or 
ozone (O3) exposure can result in downstream perturbations in the 
cardiovasculature, as the pulmonary and cardiovascular systems are intricately 
associated, and it is well documented that specific environmental toxins (such 
as tobacco smoke 2) introduced through the lungs can initiate and/or accelerate 
cardiovascular disease development. Indeed, several epidemiologic studies have 
proved that there is an association between PM and O3 and the increased 
incidence of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality 3. Most of the evidence 
comes from studies of ambient particles concentrations. However, in Europe and 
elsewhere, the air pollution profile has gradually changed toward a more 
pronounced photochemical component. Ozone is one of the most toxic components of 
the photochemical air pollution mixture. Indeed, the biological basis for these 
observations has not been elucidated. In the present review, the role of ozone 
as chemical molecule will be firstly considered. Secondly, pathogenetic 
mechanisms connecting the atmospheric ozone level and cardiovascular pathology 
will be examined. Thirdly, the literature relating hospitalization frequency, 
morbidity and mortality due to cardiovascular causes and ozone concentration 
will be studied. The correlation between ozone level and occurrence of acute 
myocardial infarction will be eventually discussed.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-7120-7-30
PMCID: PMC2706799
PMID: 19552797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Health Econ. 2009 Sep;18(9):1031-55. doi: 10.1002/hec.1475.

Do current levels of air pollution kill? The impact of air pollution on 
population mortality in England.

Janke K(1), Propper C, Henderson J.

Author information:
(1)CMPO, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

The current air quality limit values for airborne pollutants in the UK are low 
by historical standards and are at levels that are believed not to harm health. 
We assess whether this view is correct. We examine the relationship between 
common sources of airborne pollution and population mortality for England. We 
use data at local authority level for 1998-2005 to examine whether current 
levels of airborne pollution, as measured by annual mean concentrations of 
carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, particulate matter less than 10 microm in 
diameter (PM(10)) and ozone, are associated with excess deaths. We examine 
all-cause mortality and deaths from specific cardiovascular and respiratory 
causes that are known to be exacerbated by air pollution. The panel nature of 
our data allows us to control for any unobserved time-invariant associations at 
local authority level between high levels of air pollution and poor population 
health and for common time trends. We estimate multi-pollutant models to allow 
for the fact that three of the pollutants are closely correlated. We find that 
higher levels of PM(10) and ozone are associated with higher mortality rates, 
and the effect sizes are considerably larger than previously estimated from the 
primarily time series studies for England.

Copyright (c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1475
PMID: 19353528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Rev Mal Respir. 2009 Feb;26(2):191-206. doi: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)71596-7.

[Development and current status of atmospheric pollution].

[Article in French]

Elichegaray C(1), Bouallala S, Maitre A, Ba M.

Author information:
(1)ADEME Département Surveillance de la Qualité de l'Air, Paris, France. 
christian.elichegaray@ademe.fr

INTRODUCTION: Air quality is a public health issue and this article includes a 
reminder of the related causes and issues and a description of the monitoring of 
ambient air quality in France. It also provides a review of major developments 
in recent years of the pollutants measured.
BACKGROUND: Emissions of major air pollutants have declined significantly since 
the 1970s, and this is reflected in an overall improvement in the quality of 
ambient air. Nevertheless, various forms of air pollution remain a concern (in 
the case of photochemical pollution) and health data show that air pollution is 
still a cause of morbidity and mortality.
VIEWPOINTS: The fight against air pollution must remain a priority and requires 
multi-pollutant and multi-effect approaches. The National Health and Environment 
Program adopted during the Grenelle environment stakeholder consultation 
processes includes targets for reducing human exposure to air pollution, 
especially particulate matter, as well as measures to improve indoor air 
quality.
CONCLUSIONS: In a context dominated by the struggle against the emission of 
greenhouse gases, problems of air quality should not be underestimated and 
policies relating to climate protection must be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)71596-7
PMID: 19319114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Sep;29(9):878-81.

[A case-crossover study on air pollutants and the mortality of stroke].

[Article in Chinese]

Ren YJ(1), Li XY, Chen K, Liu QM, Xiang HQ, Jin DF, Chen RH.

Author information:
(1)Hangzhou Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Hangzhou 310006, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the short-term effect of particulate matter in air on 
the mortality of stroke.
METHODS: Using time-stratified case-crossover study design, an association was 
examined between stroke mortality and particulate matter with aerodynamic 
diameter of < 10 microm (PM10) of 2002 - 2004 in Hangzhou city. Meanwhile, the 
acute health effect of other gaseous pollutants (sulfur dioxide, SO2 and 
nitrogen dioxide, NO2) was also analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 9906 deaths of stroke were included. The crude stroke 
mortality was 83.54 per 100 000. After being adjusted for meteorological 
factors, when an increase of 10 microg/m3 in PM10, SO2 and NO2 in three days was 
noticed, it appeared that the increases of mortality of stroke were 0.56% (95% 
CI: 0.14%-0.99%), 1.62% (95% CI: 0.26% - 3.01%) and 2.07% (95% CI: 0.54% - 
3.62%) respectively. There was no distinct association in multi-pollutant 
models. In sensitivity analysis, the associations were found in all 
single-pollutant models but not statistically significant in multi-pollutant 
models after replacing the missing values.
CONCLUSION: It is suggested that the short-term elevation in PM10 as well as SO2 
and NO2 daily concentrations were related to the increase of stroke mortality in 
Hangzhou city.

PMID: 19173848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol. 2007 Dec;17 Suppl 2:S83-9. doi: 
10.1038/sj.jes.7500623.

Panel discussion review: session two--interpretation of observed associations 
between multiple ambient air pollutants and health effects in epidemiologic 
analyses.

Kim JY(1), Burnett RT, Neas L, Thurston GD, Schwartz J, Tolbert PE, Brunekreef 
B, Goldberg MS, Romieu I.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Environmental Assessment, US Environmental Protection 
Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, USA. kim.jee-young@epa.gov

Air pollution epidemiologic research has often utilized ambient air 
concentrations measured from centrally located monitors as a surrogate measure 
of exposure to these pollutants. Associations between these ambient 
concentrations and health outcomes such as lung function, hospital admissions, 
and mortality have been examined in short- and long-term cohort studies as well 
as in time-series and case-crossover studies. The issues related to interpreting 
the observed associations of ambient air pollutants with health outcomes were 
discussed at the US EPA sponsored workshop on December 13 and 14, 2006 in Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, USA. The second session of this workshop focused on the 
following topics: (1) statistical methodology and study designs that may improve 
understanding of multipollutant health effects; (2) ambient concentrations as 
surrogate measures of pollutant mixtures; and (3) source-focused epidemiologic 
research. New methodology and approaches to better distinguish the effects of 
individual pollutants include multicity hierarchical modeling and the use of 
case-crossover analysis to control for copollutants. An alternative approach is 
to examine the mixture as a whole using principal component analysis. Another 
important consideration is to what extent the observed health associations are 
attributable to individual pollutants, which are often from common sources and 
are correlated, versus the pollutant mixtures that the pollutants are 
representing. For example, several ambient air concentrations, such as 
particulate matter mass, nitrogen dioxide, and carbon monoxide, may be serving 
as surrogate measures of motor vehicle exhaust. Source apportionment analysis is 
one method that may allow further advancement in understanding the source 
components that contribute to multipollutant health effects.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jes.7500623
PMID: 18079769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol. 2007 Dec;17 Suppl 2:S45-60. doi: 
10.1038/sj.jes.7500627.

Characterization of PM2.5, gaseous pollutants, and meteorological interactions 
in the context of time-series health effects models.

Ito K(1), Thurston GD, Silverman RA.

Author information:
(1)NYU School of Medicine, Nelson Institute of Environmental Medicine, Tuxedo, 
New York 10987, USA. kaz@env.med.nyu.edu

Associations of particulate matter (PM) and ozone with morbidity and mortality 
have been reported in many recent observational epidemiology studies. These 
studies often considered other gaseous co-pollutants also as potential 
confounders, including nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and carbon 
monoxide (CO). However, because each of these air pollutants can have different 
seasonal patterns and chemical interactions, the estimation and interpretation 
of each pollutant's individual risk estimates may not be straightforward. 
Multi-collinearity among the air pollution and weather variables also leaves the 
possibility of confounding and over- or under-fitting of meteorological 
variables, thereby potentially influencing the health effect estimates for the 
various pollutants in differing ways. To investigate these issues, we examined 
the temporal relationships among air pollution and weather variables in the 
context of air pollution health effects models. We compiled daily data for PM 
less than 2.5 mum (PM2.5), ozone, NO2, SO2, CO, temperature, dew point, relative 
humidity, wind speed, and barometric pressure for New York City for the years 
1999-2002. We conducted several sets of analyses to characterize air pollution 
and weather data interactions, to assess different aspects of these data issues: 
(1) spatial/temporal variation of PM2.5 and gaseous pollutants measured at 
multiple monitors; (2) temporal relationships among air pollution and weather 
variables; and (3) extent and nature of multi-collinearity of air pollution and 
weather variables in the context of health effects models. The air pollution 
variables showed a varying extent of intercorrelations with each other and with 
weather variables, and these correlations also varied across seasons. For 
example, NO2 exhibited the strongest negative correlation with wind speed among 
the pollutants considered, while ozone's correlation with PM2.5 changed signs 
across the seasons (positive in summer and negative in winter). The extent of 
multi-collinearity problems also varied across pollutants and choice of health 
effects models commonly used in the literature. These results indicate that the 
health effects regression need to be run by season for some pollutants to 
provide the most meaningful results. We also find that model choice and 
interpretation needs to take into consideration the varying pollutant 
concurvities with the model co-variables in each pollutant's health effects 
model specification. Finally, we provide an example for analysis of associations 
between these air pollutants and asthma emergency department visits in New York 
City, which evaluate the relationship between the various pollutants' risk 
estimates and their respective concurvities, and discuss the limitations that 
these results imply about the interpretability of multi-pollutant health effects 
models.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jes.7500627
PMID: 18079764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Occup Health. 2008;50(1):41-7. doi: 10.1539/joh.50.41.

Short-term effects of ambient gaseous pollutants and particulate matter on daily 
mortality in Shanghai, China.

Chen G(1), Song G, Jiang L, Zhang Y, Zhao N, Chen B, Kan H.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center, School of Public Health, Fudan 
University, China.

Identification of the specific pollutants contributing most to the health hazard 
of the air pollution mixture may have important implications for environmental 
and social policies. In the current study, we conducted a time-series analysis 
to examine the specific effects of major air pollutants [particulate matter less 
than 10 microns in diameter (PM(10)), sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), and nitrogen 
dioxides (NO(2))] on daily mortality in Shanghai, China, using both 
single-pollutant and multiple-pollutant models. In the single-pollutant models, 
PM(10), SO(2), and NO(2) were found to be associated with mortality from both 
all non-accidental causes and from cardiopulmonary diseases. Unlike some prior 
studies in North America, we found a significant effect of gaseous pollutants 
(SO(2) and NO(2)) on daily mortality even after adjustment for PM(10) in the 
multiple-pollutant models. Our findings, combined with previous Chinese studies 
showing a consistent, significant effect of gaseous pollutants on mortality, 
suggest that the role of outdoor exposure to SO(2) and NO(2) should be 
investigated further in China.

DOI: 10.1539/joh.50.41
PMID: 18285643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Occup Environ Med. 2008 Apr;65(4):255-60. doi: 10.1136/oem.2007.033878. Epub 
2007 Sep 21.

Ozone modifies associations between temperature and cardiovascular mortality: 
analysis of the NMMAPS data.

Ren C(1), Williams GM, Morawska L, Mengersen K, Tong S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Medicine, University of California, 100 
Theory Drive, Suite 100, Irvine, CA 92697-7555, USA. rencizao@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: Both ambient ozone and temperature are associated with human health. 
However, few data are available on whether ozone modifies temperature effects. 
This study aims to explore whether ozone modified associations between maximum 
temperature and cardiovascular mortality in the USA.
METHODS: The authors obtained data from the US National Morbidity, Mortality, 
and Air Pollution Study (NMMAPS) website. They used two time-series Poisson 
regression models (a response surface model and a stratification model) to 
examine whether ozone modified associations between maximum temperature and 
cardiovascular mortality (CVM) in 95 large US communities during 1987-2000 in 
summer (June to September). Bayesian meta-analysis was used to pool estimates in 
each community.
RESULTS: The response surface model was used to examine the joint effects of 
temperature and ozone on CVM in summer. Results indicate that ozone positively 
modified the temperature-CVM associations across the different regions. The 
stratification model quantified the temperature-CVM associations across 
different levels of ozone. Results show that in general the higher the ozone 
concentration, the stronger the temperature-CVM associations across the 
communities. A 10 degrees C increase in temperature on the same day was 
associated with an increase in CVM by 1.17% and 8.31% for the lowest and highest 
level of ozone concentrations in all communities, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Ozone modified temperature effects in different regions in the USA. 
It is important to evaluate the modifying role of ozone when estimating 
temperature-related health impacts and to further investigate the reasons behind 
the regional variability and mechanism for the interaction between temperature 
and ozone.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2007.033878
PMID: 17890300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Ir Med J. 2007 Feb;100(2):367-9.

Lung cancer and urban air-pollution in Dublin: a temporal association?

Kabir Z(1), Bennett K, Clancy L.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health Division of Public Health Practice 401 Park 
Drive Landmark Center, 3rd Floor (East) Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
zkabir@hsph.harvard.edu

In 1990, the sale, marketing and distribution of bituminous coal, primarily used 
for domestic heating, were banned across Dublin. This study exploits the 
potential of a 'natural experiment' to assess a temporal association between 
adjusted annual lung cancer death rates and the changing annual mean urban 
air-pollution concentrations in Dublin from 1981 to 2000. Annual mean 'black 
smoke' (BS) concentration was used as an indicator variable for the urban 
air-pollution mixture. Log-linear Poisson regression model (with an offset) was 
used to estimate adjusted rate ratios of lung cancer death rates between two 
periods (1981-1990 and 1991-2000) relative to the year 1990. A significant 
(p<0.0001) two-third decline in BS concentration (28.2 microg/m(3)) was seen 
between the two periods [pre-ban (46.4 microg/m(3)) vs. post-ban (18.2 
microg/m(3))]. Relative to 1990 (rate ratio= 1 ), a slightly greater decline 
(2%) in death rates was achieved in the pre-ban period (1981-1990) when mean 
annual BS concentrations were very high, but a lower decline (1%) was seen in 
the post-ban period (1991-2000) corresponding to very low mean annual BS 
concentrations. In other words, a further fall in adjusted rates in lung cancer 
was achievable both in the pre-ban and the post-ban periods when simultaneously 
controlling for BS and smoking. A temporal association thus observed between 
lung cancer death rates and the changing BS concentrations suggests that control 
of particulate air-pollution could further reduce lung cancer rates, 
irrespective of smoking patterns.

PMID: 17432813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Stroke. 2007 Mar;38(3):918-22. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000257999.49706.3b. Epub 
2007 Feb 15.

Associations of fine and ultrafine particulate air pollution with stroke 
mortality in an area of low air pollution levels.

Kettunen J(1), Lanki T, Tiittanen P, Aalto PP, Koskentalo T, Kulmala M, Salomaa 
V, Pekkanen J.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Epidemiology Unit , Kuopio, Finland. jaana.kettunen@ktl.fi

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Daily variation in outdoor concentrations of inhalable 
particles (PM(10) <10 microm in diameter) has been associated with fatal and 
nonfatal stroke. Toxicological and epidemiological studies suggest that smaller, 
combustion-related particles are especially harmful. We therefore evaluated the 
effects of several particle measures including, for the first time to our 
knowledge, ultrafine particles (<0.1 microm) on stroke.
METHODS: Levels of particulate and gaseous air pollution were measured in 1998 
to 2004 at central outdoor monitoring sites in Helsinki. Associations between 
daily levels of air pollutants and deaths caused by stroke among persons aged 65 
years or older were evaluated in warm and cold seasons using Poisson regression.
RESULTS: There was a total of 1304 and 1961 deaths from stroke in warm and cold 
seasons, respectively. During the warm season, there were positive associations 
of stroke mortality with current- and previous-day levels of fine particles 
(<2.5 microm, PM(2.5)) (6.9%; 95% CI, 0.8% to 13.8%; and 7.4%; 95% CI, 1.3% to 
13.8% for an interquartile increase in PM(2.5)) and previous-day levels of 
ultrafine particles (8.5%; 95% CI, -1.2% to 19.1%) and carbon monoxide (8.3; 95% 
CI, 0.6 to 16.6). Associations for fine particles were mostly independent of 
other pollutants. There were no associations in the cold season.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that especially PM(2.5), but also ultrafine 
particles and carbon monoxide, are associated with increased risk of fatal 
stroke, but only during the warm season. The effect of season might be 
attributable to seasonal differences in exposure or air pollution mixture.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000257999.49706.3b
PMID: 17303767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol. 2007 Aug;17(5):478-87. doi: 
10.1038/sj.jes.7500542. Epub 2007 Feb 14.

Effect of particulate matter air pollution on hospital admissions and medical 
visits for lung and heart disease in two southeast Idaho cities.

Ulirsch GV(1), Ball LM, Kaye W, Shy CM, Lee CV, Crawford-Brown D, Symons M, 
Holloway T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Assessment and Consultation, Agency for Toxic Substances 
and Disease Registry, Public Health Service, Atlanta, GA 30345, USA. 
gulirsch@cdc.gov

Few, if any, published time series studies have evaluated the effects of 
particulate matter air exposures by combining hospital admissions with medical 
visit data for smaller populations. We investigated the relationship between 
daily particulate matter (<10 microm in aerometric diameter or PM10) exposures 
with admissions and medical visits (emergency room, urgent care, and family 
practice) for respiratory and cardiovascular disease in Pocatello and Chubbuck, 
Idaho (population about 60,000), from November 1994 through March 2000. Within 
generalized linear models, time, weather, influenza, and day-of-week effects 
were controlled. In single-pollutant models, respiratory disease admissions and 
visits increased (7.1-15.4% per 50 microg/m3 PM10) for each age group analyzed, 
with the highest increases in two groups, children and especially the elderly. 
Statistical analyses suggest that the results probably did not occur by chance. 
Sensitivity analyses did not provide strong evidence that the respiratory 
disease effect estimates were sensitive to reasonable changes in the final 
degrees of freedom choice for time and weather effects. No strong evidence of 
confounding by NO2 and SO2 was found from results of multi-pollutant models. 
Ozone and carbon monoxide data were not available to include multi-pollutant 
models, but evidence suggests that they were not a problem. Unexpectedly, 
evidence of an association between PM10 with cardiovascular disease was not 
found, possibly due to the lifestyles of the mostly Mormon study population. 
Successful time series analyses can be performed on smaller populations if 
diverse, centralized databases are available. Hospitals that offer urgent or 
other primary care services may be a rich source of data for researchers. Using 
data that potentially represented a wide-range of disease severity, the findings 
provide evidence that evaluating only hospital admissions or emergency room 
visit effects may underestimate the overall morbidity due to acute particulate 
matter exposures. Further work is planned to test this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jes.7500542
PMID: 17299531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2007 Feb;61(2):165-71. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2005.041491.

Modelling of municipal mortality due to haematological neoplasias in Spain.

Ramis Prieto R(1), García-Pérez J, Pollán M, Aragonés N, Pérez-Gómez B, 
López-Abente G.

Author information:
(1)Environmental and Cancer Epidemiology Unit, National Centre for Epidemiology, 
Carlos III Institute of Health, C/Sinesio Delgado, 6, 28029 Madrid, Spain. 
rramis@isciii.es

OBJECTIVES: To study the geographical pattern of mortality caused by 
haematological tumours in Spain at the municipal level using three Bayesian 
models and to compare their goodness of fit.
METHODS: The fitted Bayesian hierarchical models were: (1) the Besag York and 
Molliè (BYM) model; (2) a model based on zero-inflated Poisson (ZIP) 
distribution, which allowed a large number of event-free areas; and (3) a 
mixture of distributions that enabled discontinuities (jumps in the pattern) to 
be modelled. The three models allow smoothed relative risk maps to be obtained 
for the all countries. The goodness of fit was evaluated using the deviance 
information criteria.
RESULTS: The three models yielded similar results. The ZIP model plotted a 
pattern almost identical with the BYM model. The goodness-of-fit criteria 
indicate that the mixture model is the one that best fits our data. 
Haematological tumours display a geographical pattern that could be partly 
explained by environmental determinants, as many of the highest-risk towns are 
located in heavily industrialised areas.
CONCLUSIONS: The choice of one or another model has scant practical 
consequences. The pattern of distribution supports the hypothesis that 
differences in lifestyles, air/industrial pollution and migratory phenomena may 
determine the pattern of urban mortality due to these tumours.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2005.041491
PMCID: PMC2465634
PMID: 17234878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


233. Arch Environ Occup Health. 2005 Mar-Apr;60(2):70-6. doi: 
10.3200/AEOH.60.2.70-76.

Report of workshop on traffic, health, and infrastructure planning.

White RH(1), Spengler JD, Dilwali KM, Barry BE, Samet JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. rwhite@jhsph.edu

Recent air pollutant measurement data document unique aspects of the air 
pollution mixture near roadways, and an expanding body of epidemiological data 
suggests increased risks for exacerbation of asthma and other respiratory 
diseases, premature mortality, and certain cancers and birth outcomes from air 
pollution exposures in populations residing in relatively close proximity to 
roadways. The Workshop on Traffic, Health, and Infrastructure Planning, held in 
February 2004, was convened to provide a forum for interdisciplinary discussion 
of motor vehicle emissions, exposures and potential health effects related to 
proximity to motor vehicle traffic. This report summarizes the workshop 
discussions and findings regarding the current science on this issue, identifies 
planning and policy issues related to localized motor vehicle emissions and 
health concerns, and provides recommendations for future research and policy 
directions.

DOI: 10.3200/AEOH.60.2.70-76
PMCID: PMC2714822
PMID: 16983859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2006 Mar;69(6):417-35. doi: 
10.1080/15287390500246761.

A new model for investigating the mortality effects of multiple air pollutants 
in air pollution mortality time-series studies.

Roberts S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Finance and Applied Statistics, Australian National University, 
Canberra, ACT, Australia. steven.roberts@anu.edu.au

Because the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates air pollutants 
independently, the majority of time-series studies on air pollution and 
mortality have focused on estimating the adverse health effects of a single 
pollutant. However, due to the sometimes high correlation between air 
pollutants, the results from studies that focus on a single air pollutant can be 
difficult to interpret. In addition, the high correlation between air pollutants 
can produce problems of interpretation for the standard method of investigating 
the adverse health effects due to multiple air pollutants. The standard method 
involves simultaneously including the multiple air pollutants in a single 
statistical model. Because of this, the development of new models to 
concurrently estimate the adverse health effects of multiple air pollutants has 
recently been identified as an important area of future research. In this 
article, a new model for disentangling the joint effects of multiple air 
pollutants in air pollution mortality time-series studies is introduced. This 
new model uses the time-series data to assign each air pollutant a weight that 
indicates the pollutant's contribution to the air pollution mixture that affects 
mortality and to estimate the effect of this air pollution mixture on mortality. 
This model offers an improvement in statistical estimation precision over the 
standard method. It also avoids problems of interpretation that can occur if the 
standard method is used. This new model is then illustrated by applying it to 
time-series data from two U.S. counties.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390500246761
PMID: 16574619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Am J Epidemiol. 2005 Mar 15;161(6):585-94. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwi075.

Seasonal analyses of air pollution and mortality in 100 US cities.

Peng RD(1), Dominici F, Pastor-Barriuso R, Zeger SL, Samet JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
6125 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. rpeng@jhsph.edu

Time series models relating short-term changes in air pollution levels to daily 
mortality counts typically assume that the effects of air pollution on the log 
relative rate of mortality do not vary with time. However, these short-term 
effects might plausibly vary by season. Changes in the sources of air pollution 
and meteorology can result in changes in characteristics of the air pollution 
mixture across seasons. The authors developed Bayesian semiparametric 
hierarchical models for estimating time-varying effects of pollution on 
mortality in multisite time series studies. The methods were applied to the 
database of the National Morbidity and Mortality Air Pollution Study, which 
includes data for 100 US cities, for the period 1987-2000. At the national 
level, a 10-microg/m(3) increase in particulate matter less than 10 microm in 
aerodynamic diameter at a 1-day lag was associated with 0.15% (95% posterior 
interval (PI): -0.08, 0.39), 0.14% (95% PI: -0.14, 0.42), 0.36% (95% PI: 0.11, 
0.61), and 0.14% (95% PI: -0.06, 0.34) increases in mortality for winter, 
spring, summer, and fall, respectively. An analysis by geographic region found a 
strong seasonal pattern in the Northeast (with a peak in summer) and little 
seasonal variation in the southern regions of the country. These results provide 
useful information for understanding particle toxicity and guiding future 
analyses of particle constituent data.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwi075
PMID: 15746475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J Expo Anal Environ Epidemiol. 2005 Mar;15(2):153-9. doi: 
10.1038/sj.jea.7500382.

Association between particulate matter and emergency room visits, hospital 
admissions and mortality in Spokane, Washington.

Slaughter JC(1), Kim E, Sheppard L, Sullivan JH, Larson TV, Claiborn C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98195, USA.

There is conflicting evidence regarding the association between different size 
fractions of particulate matter (PM) and cardiac and respiratory morbidity and 
mortality. We investigated the short-term associations of four size fractions of 
particulate matter (PM(1), PM(2.5), PM(10), and PM(10-2.5)) and carbon monoxide 
with hospital admissions and emergency room (ER) visits for respiratory and 
cardiac conditions and mortality in Spokane, Washington. We used a log-linear 
generalized linear model to compare daily averages of PM and carbon monoxide 
with daily counts of the morbidity and mortality outcomes from January 1995 to 
June 2001. We examined pollution lags ranging from 0 to 3 days and compared our 
results to a similar log-linear generalized additive model. Effect estimates 
tended to be smaller and have larger standard errors for the generalized linear 
model. Overall, we saw no association with respiratory ER visits and any size 
fraction of PM. However, there was a suggestion of greater respiratory effect 
from fine PM when compared to coarse fraction. Carbon monoxide was associated 
with both all respiratory ER visits and visits for asthma at the 3-day lag. We 
feel that carbon monoxide may be serving as a marker for combustion-derived 
pollutants, which is one large component of the diverse air pollutant mixture. 
We also found no association with any size fraction of PM or CO with cardiac 
hospital admissions or mortality at the 0- to 3-day lag. We found no consistent 
associations between any size fraction of PM and cardiac or respiratory ER 
visits or hospital admissions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jea.7500382
PMID: 15187986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2003 Jul 25;66(14):1341-9. doi: 
10.1080/15287390306389.

Relationship between air pollution and daily mortality in a tropical city: 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Tsai SS(1), Huang CH, Goggins WB, Wu TN, Yang CY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Air pollution has been associated with daily mortality in numerous studies over 
the past decade. However, most of these studies were conducted in the United 
States and Europe, with relatively few done in Asia. In this study, the 
association between ambient air pollution and daily mortality in Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan, a large industrial city with a tropical climate, was investigated for 
the period 1994-2000 using a case-crossover analysis. This design is an 
alternative to Poisson time-series regression for studying the short-term 
adverse health effects of air pollution. The air pollutants examined included 
particulate matter (PM10), sulfur dioxide (SO2), ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide 
(NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO). No significant effects were found between PM10 
and SO2 exposure levels and respiratory-related mortality. The well-established 
link between air pollution levels and daily mortality may not be as strong in 
cities in tropical areas, although other factors such as differences in 
pollutant mixtures or underlying health of the population may explain the lack 
of a strong association in this study. Further studies of this type in cities 
with varying climates and cultures are needed.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390306389
PMID: 12851115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Arch Environ Health. 2001 Jul-Aug;56(4):327-35. doi: 10.1080/00039890109604464.

Short-term effects of air pollution on mortality in the cities of Rouen and Le 
Havre, France, 1990-1995.

Zeghnoun A(1), Czernichow P, Beaudeau P, Hautemanière A, Froment L, Le Tertre A, 
Quénel P.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Veille Sanitaire, Saint Maurice, France.

In this study, the authors examined the short-term effects of ambient air 
pollution on mortality across 2 French cities: Rouen and Le Havre. In Poisson 
regression models, which controlled for day-of-week effects, the authors used 
nonparametric smoothing to control for temporal trend, weather, and influenza 
epidemics. In Rouen, an interquartile range increase of 60.5-94.1 microg/m3 of 
ozone was associated with an increase of 4.1% (95% confidence interval = 0.6, 
7.8) of total mortality. Daily variations in sulfur dioxide (interquartile range 
increase = 17.6-36.4 microg/m3) were also associated with an 8.2% increase (95% 
confidence interval = 0.4, 16.6) in respiratory mortality. An increase of 6.1% 
(95% confidence interval = 1.5, 10.9) of cardiovascular mortality was also 
observed with an interquartile range increase of nitrogen dioxide (i.e., 
25.3-42.2 microg/m3). With respect to Le Havre, an interquartile range increase 
in daily levels of sulfur dioxide (11.3-35.6 microg/m3) was associated with an 
increase of approximately 3% (95% confidence interval = 0.8, 5) of 
cardiovascular mortality. For particulate matter less than or equal to 13 microm 
in diameter (interquartile increase = 21.5, 45.4 microg/m3), an increase of 6.2% 
(95% confidence interval = 0.1, 12.8) was observed. The estimates of pollutant 
effects and their standard deviations were slightly affected by the degree of 
smoothing temporal variations in this study. When low collinearity was present, 
the 2-pollutant models provided acceptable estimates of pollutant effects. They 
suggested that the ozone effect was independent of the Black Smoke effect, and 
that the effects of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide were unlikely to be 
confounded by ozone concentrations. However, high collinearity leads to large 
estimates of the pollutant coefficient variances and, therefore, leads to 
inaccurate estimates of pollutant effects. The analysis of the contributory 
effects of different pollutant mixtures requires further investigation in those 
instances in which high collinearity between pollutants is present.

DOI: 10.1080/00039890109604464
PMID: 11572276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Clin Exp Allergy. 2000 Dec;30(12):1724-32. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2222.2000.00947.x.

Combined effects of aerobiological pollutants, chemical pollutants and 
meteorological conditions on asthma admissions and A & E attendances in 
Derbyshire UK, 1993-96.

Lewis SA(1), Corden JM, Forster GE, Newlands M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Respiratory Medicine, University of Nottingham, City Hospital, 
Nottingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: The effect of outdoor aeroallergen exposure in asthma may be 
enhanced by air pollutants, including ozone, nitrogen dioxide and particulates, 
and by certain weather conditions. It is not yet established whether these 
interactions are important in determining asthma morbidity at the population 
level.
OBJECTIVE: We have investigated the joint effects of aeroallergens, rainfall, 
thunderstorms and outdoor air pollutants on daily asthma admissions and Accident 
and Emergency (A & E) attendance using routinely collected data between 1993 and 
1996 from Derby in central England.
METHODS: Daily counts during the aeroallergen season of grass and birch pollen, 
basidiospores, Didymella, Alternaria and Cladosporium, maximum 1 hour ozone and 
nitrogen dioxide and daily average black smoke measurements, all made in the 
vicinity of the city centre, were categorized in tertiles. Rainfall was 
classified as dry, light (</= 2 mm) or heavy (> 2 mm). The modifying effect of 
outdoor pollutant levels, and rainfall or the occurrence of a thunderstorm, upon 
the effects of individual aeroallergens on asthma admissions and A & E 
attendance were investigated by fitting appropriate interactions in log linear 
autoregression models with adjustment for potential confounders.
RESULTS: We found a significant interaction between the effects of grass pollen 
and weather conditions upon A & E attendance, such that the increase with grass 
pollen count was most marked on days of light rainfall (adjusted rate ratio for 
>/= 50 vs < 10 grains/m3 at lag 2 days = 2.1, 95% CI 1.4, 3.3). Asthma 
admissions increased with Cladosporium count. We found no statistically 
significant interactions between effects of any individual aeroallergen and 
outdoor air pollutant upon either measure of asthma morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: Rainfall and thunderstorms are important effect modifiers in the 
relation between grass pollen and measures of acute asthma morbidity. 
Interactions between ambient levels of aeroallergens and chemical pollutants in 
the Derby area do not play a major role in determining asthma admissions and A & 
E attendance.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2222.2000.00947.x
PMID: 11122210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 1999 Sep;49(9):154-63. doi: 
10.1080/10473289.1999.10463879.

Association between levels of fine particulate and emergency visits for 
pneumonia and other respiratory illnesses among children in Santiago, Chile.

Ilabaca M(1), Olaeta I, Campos E, Villaire J, Tellez-Rojo MM, Romieu I.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Publica, Mexico.

Recent evidence has implicated the fine fraction of particulate as the major 
contributor to the increase in mortality and morbidity related to particulate 
ambient levels. We therefore evaluated the impact of daily variation of ambient 
PM2.5 and other pollutants on the number of daily respiratory-related emergency 
visits (REVs) to a large pediatric hospital of Santiago, Chile. The study was 
conducted from February 1995 to August 1996. Four monitoring stations from the 
network of Santiago provided air pollution data. The PM2.5 24-hr average ranged 
from 10 to 111 micrograms/m3 during September to April (warm months) and from 10 
to 156 micrograms/m3 during May to August (cold months). Other contaminants 
(ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and sulfur dioxide (SO2)) were, in general, 
low during the study period. The increase in REVs was significantly related to 
PM10 and PM2.5 ambient levels, with the relationship between PM2.5 levels and 
the number of REVs the stronger. During the cold months, an increase of 45 
micrograms/m3 in the PM2.5 24-hr average was related to a 2.7% increase in the 
number of REVs (95% CI, 1.1-4.4%) with a two-day lag, and to an increase of 6.7% 
(95% CI, 1.7-12.0%) in the number of visits for pneumonia with a three-day lag. 
SO2 and NO2 were also related to REVs. We conclude that urban air pollutant 
mixture, particularly fine particulates, adversely affect the respiratory health 
of children residing in Santiago.

DOI: 10.1080/10473289.1999.10463879
PMID: 11002834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2000 Aug;50(8):1481-500. doi: 
10.1080/10473289.2000.10464170.

A study of the association between daily mortality and ambient air pollutant 
concentrations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Chock DP(1), Winkler SL, Chen C.

Author information:
(1)Ford Research Laboratory, Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, Michigan, USA.

We have studied the possible association of daily mortality with ambient 
pollutant concentrations (PM10, CO, O3, SO2, NO2, and fine [PM2.5] and coarse 
PM) and weather variables (temperature and dew point) in the Pittsburgh, PA, 
area for two age groups--less than 75, and 75 and over--for the 3-year period of 
1989-1991. Correlation functions among pollutant concentrations show important 
seasonal dependence, and this fact necessitates the use of seasonal models to 
better identify the link between ambient pollutant concentrations and daily 
mortality. An analysis of the seasonal model results for the younger-age group 
reveals significant multicollinearity problems among the highly correlated 
concentrations of PM10, CO, and NO2 (and O3 in spring and summer), and calls 
into question the rather consistent results of the single- and multi-pollutant 
non-seasonal models that show a significant positive association between PM10 
and daily mortality. For the older-age group, dew point consistently shows a 
significant association with daily mortality in all models. Collinearity 
problems appear in the multi-pollutant seasonal and non-seasonal models such 
that a significant, positive PM10 coefficient is accompanied by a significant, 
negative coefficient of another ambient pollutant, and the identity of this 
other pollutant changes with season. The PM2.5 data set is half that of PM10. 
Identical-model runs for both data sets reveal instability in the pollutant 
coefficients, especially for the younger age group. The concern for the 
instability of the pollutant coefficients due to a small signal-to-noise ratio 
makes it impossible to ascertain credibly the relative associations of the fine- 
and coarse-particle modes with daily mortality. In this connection, we call for 
caution in the interpretation of model results for causal inference when the 
models use fully or partially estimated PM values to fill large data gaps.

DOI: 10.1080/10473289.2000.10464170
PMID: 11002609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Environ Health Perspect. 2000 Aug;108(8):777-84. doi: 10.1289/ehp.00108777.

Air pollution and daily mortality in three U.S. counties.

Moolgavkar SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and Sciences International, Inc, 
Seattle, Washington, USA. smoolgav@fhcrc.org

I used generalized additive models to analyze the time-series of daily total 
nonaccidental and cause-specific (cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease) deaths over the period 1987-1995 in three major 
U.S. metropolitan areas: Cook County, Los Angeles County, and Maricopa County. 
In all three counties I had monitoring information on particulate matter [less 
than/equal to] 10 microm (PM(10)), carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen 
dioxide, and ozone. In Los Angeles, monitoring information on particulate matter 
[less than/equal to] 2.5 microm (PM(2.5)) was available as well. I present the 
results of both single and multi-pollutant analyses. Air pollution was 
associated with each of the mortality end points. With respect to the individual 
components of the pollution mix, the results indicate considerable heterogeneity 
of air pollution effects in the different geographic locations. In general, the 
gases, particularly CO, but not ozone, were much more strongly associated with 
mortality than was particulate matter. This association was particularly 
striking in Los Angeles County.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.00108777
PMCID: PMC1638292
PMID: 10964799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Rev Environ Health. 2000 Jan-Jun;15(1-2):13-42. doi: 
10.1515/reveh.2000.15.1-2.13.

Air pollution and health in urban areas.

Schwela D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Protection of the Human Environment, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland.

In this paper, recent reviews of the World Health Organization, other review 
papers, and more recent literature on the human health effects of current air 
pollution trends in urban areas are reviewed and summarized as follows: Sulphur 
dioxide. Some studies, but not others, found associations between sulphur 
dioxide (SO2) exposure and daily mortality and morbidity. Single-pollutant 
correlations sometimes disappeared when other pollutants, especially suspended 
particulate matter (SPM), were included. Cross-sectional studies with asthmatics 
revealed significant, non-threshold relations between SO2 and decrements of the 
forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1). Nitrogen dioxide. Weak associations 
between short-term nitrogen dioxide (NO2) exposure from gas cooking and 
respiratory symptoms and a decrement in lung function parameters were found in 
children, but not consistently in exposed women. With long-term exposure, 
children, but not adults, exhibit increased respiratory symptoms, decreased lung 
function, and increased incidences of chronic cough, bronchitis, and 
conjunctivitis. A causal relationship between NO2 exposure and adverse health 
effects has not yet been established. Carbon monoxide. Binding of CO in the 
lungs with hemoglobin in the blood forms carboxyhemoglobin (COHb), which impairs 
the transport of oxygen. The health effects of CO include hypoxia, neurological 
deficits and neurobehavioral changes, and increases in daily mortality and 
hospital admissions for cardiovascular diseases. The latter persists even at 
very low CO levels, indicating no threshold for the onset of these effects. 
Whether the relation between daily mortality and exposure to CO are causal or 
whether CO might act as a proxy for SPM is still an open question. Ambient CO 
may have even more serious health consequences than does COHb formation and at 
lower levels than that mediated through elevated COHb levels. Ozone. Short-term 
acute effects of O3 include pulmonary function decrements, increased airway 
responsiveness and airway inflammation, aggravation of pre-existing respiratory 
diseases like asthma, increases in daily hospital admissions and emergency 
department visits for respiratory causes, and excess mortality. 
Exposure-response relations are non-linear for the respective associations 
between O3 and FEV1, inflammatory changes, and changes in hospital admissions, 
whereas the relation between percent change in symptom exacerbation among adults 
and asthmatics is linear. Single-pollutant associations between O3 exposure and 
daily mortality and hospital admissions for respiratory diseases is 
statistically significant, even in multi-pollutant models. Suspended particulate 
matter. Associations between SPM concentrations and mortality and morbidity 
rates are significant. The acute health effects of SPM, even at short-term low 
levels of exposure, include increased daily mortality and hospital admission 
rates for exacerbation of respiratory disease, fluctuations in the prevalence of 
bronchodilator use, and cough and peak flow reductions, as well as long-term 
effects with respect to mortality and respiratory morbidity. Such effects depend 
on particle size and concentration and can fluctuate with daily fluctuations in 
PM10 or PM2.5 levels. The relation between PM10 or PM2.5 exposure and acute 
health effects is linear at concentrations below 100 micrograms/m3. Currently no 
threshold has been reported below which no effects occur. The influence of 
co-polluting gaseous pollutants could explain part of the observed variance in 
short-term health effects and reduce the contribution of SPM. Lead. The 
biological effects of lead can be related to blood lead levels, the best 
indicator of internal exposure. The potential effects of lead in adults and 
children include encephalopathic signs and symptoms, central nervous system 
symptoms, cognitive effects, increased blood pressure, and reduced measures of 
child intelligence. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.1515/reveh.2000.15.1-2.13
PMID: 10939084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Apr;29(2):224-31. doi: 10.1093/ije/29.2.224.

Lifetime environmental exposure to tobacco smoke and primary lung cancer of 
non-smoking Taiwanese women.

Lee CH(1), Ko YC, Goggins W, Huang JJ, Huang MS, Kao EL, Wang HZ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Medicine, School of Public Health, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Taiwan, ROC.

BACKGROUND: For a female population with a high lung cancer mortality rate, such 
as Taiwanese women, who smoke relatively rarely, but live in an environment with 
high male smoking prevalence, the risk and population burden of lung cancer due 
to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) are relatively important.
METHODS: An age-matched case-control study was designed to investigate the 
effects of cumulative environmental exposure to tobacco smoke during childhood 
and adult life on lung cancer risk among non-smoking women in Taiwan. 
Information on passive smoking from all possible sources and life periods were 
obtained from interviews with 268 and 445 lifetime non-smoking cases and 
controls. Conditional logistic regression and synergism 'S' index were applied 
to the data to assess the independent and joint effects of passive smoking in 
different life stages while controlling for possible confounding variables.
RESULTS: Risks of contracting lung cancer among women near-distantly exposed to 
the highest level of ETS in childhood (>20 smoker-years) and in adult life (>40 
smoker-years) were 1.8-fold (95% CI: 1.2-2.9) and 2.2-fold (95% CI: 1.4-3.7) 
higher than that among women being never exposed to ETS, and the two variables 
accounted for about 37% of tumours in this non-smoking female population. 
Children were found to be more susceptible to ETS than adults and such early 
exposure was found to modify the effect of subsequent tobacco smoke exposure in 
adult life based on an additive interaction model.
CONCLUSIONS: Environmental tobacco smoke exposure occurring in childhood 
potentiates the effect of high doses of exposure in adult life in determining 
the development of lung cancer. Smoking prohibition would be expected to protect 
about 37% of non-smoking Taiwanese women against lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/29.2.224
PMID: 10817117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Salud Publica Mex. 1997 Sep-Oct;39(5):403-11. doi: 
10.1590/s0036-36341997000500002.

Particulate air pollution and daily mortality: can results be generalized to 
Latin American countries?

Romieu I(1), Borja-Aburto VH.

Author information:
(1)Centro Panamericano de Ecología Humana y Salud, Organización Panamericana de 
la Salud, México.

OBJECTIVE: Recently, a series of reports, based on ecological analyses of 
routinely collected data, have shown positive associations between measures of 
particle concentration and daily mortality counts in various cities of the US 
and Europe.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We reviewed the process of generalization of these results 
to Latin American countries addressing possible differences in air pollution 
mixtures, exposure profiles, and population susceptibility.
RESULTS: A limitation to the process of generalization is the lack of a 
well-established biological mechanism by which particles may act on daily 
mortality. Also, sources and levels of ambient air pollution as well as 
population characteristics and habits vary widely between Northern communities 
of Europe and the US, and Latin American countries, which impairs the process of 
generalization. However, results of studies conducted in Latin American 
countries suggest a similar effect to that observed in Northern countries of 
Europe and the US.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite uncertainty about the mechanism, there is sufficient 
evidence that particles are harmful for health. Control measures of particle 
emission are urgently needed in Latin American countries. Given the potential of 
misclassification of exposure, the dose-response relationship observed in 
Northern Europe and the US may not be adequate for Latin American populations. 
There is a need for a new generation of epidemiological studies including a 
specific assessment of exposure to fine particles and of events surrounding 
death.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-36341997000500002
PMID: 9396379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Am J Epidemiol. 1997 Nov 1;146(9):750-62. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009351.

Air pollution and mortality in Philadelphia, 1974-1988.

Kelsall JE(1), Samet JM, Zeger SL, Xu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205, 
USA.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2000 Jan 1;151(1):106-7. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a010114.

Analyses involving data from many locations throughout the world have now been 
conducted to assess the association between air pollution and mortality. To 
date, six independent analyses of mortality data for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
have been reported. In this new analysis of Philadelphia data for 1974-1988, 
Poisson regression models were developed to estimate the increased risk of daily 
mortality associated with air pollution while controlling for longer-term time 
trends and season and for weather. Model development was based on prior 
understanding of the effects of these factors on mortality and on consideration 
of model fit. The authors found moderate correlations of daily concentrations of 
total suspended particles (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), 
and carbon monoxide (CO), and only slight correlations of ozone (O3) with other 
pollutants. When included individually in the model, the means of current and 
previous days' levels of TSP, SO2, and O3 had statistically significant effects 
on total mortality; pollutant increases of an interquartile range (34.5 
micrograms/m3, 12.9 ppb, and 20.2 ppb, respectively) were associated with 
increases in mortality of around 1% for TSP and SO2, and of around 2% for O3. 
The effects of TSP and SO2 were diminished when both pollutants were 
simultaneously included in the model, whether pairwise or in the full 
multi-pollutant model. These analyses confirm the association between TSP and 
mortality found in previous studies in Philadelphia and show that the 
association is robust to consideration of other pollutants in the model.

PIP: Data from various studies on the association between air pollution and 
mortality in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, undertaken in the period 1974-1988 are 
used in a new analysis in which the authors attempt to control for the effects 
of temporal factors, weather, and other pollutants in order to estimate the 
independent effect of total suspended particles (TSP) on mortality. The results 
confirm the association between TSP and mortality found in previous studies in 
Philadelphia and show that the association is robust to consideration of other 
pollutants.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009351
PMID: 9366623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1997 Aug 16;127(33):1334-44.

[Air pollution and health--causal criteria in environmental epidemiology].

[Article in German]

Künzli N(1), Braun-Fahrländer C, Rapp R, Ackermann-Liebrich U.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin der Universität Basel.

The evidence for the adverse health effects of today's "normal" air pollution 
relies heavily on epidemiologic studies. Given the major impact of these effects 
on environmental, economic and social policy, the causality of epidemiologic 
findings becomes a central issue. The scientific process of establishing 
causality based on the air pollution epidemiology literature is reviewed. It 
consists of two steps: first, the quality and validity of each epidemiologic 
study must be rigorously assessed (design, selection, confounding); second, the 
overall evidence across all valid studies must be appraised. Of major importance 
are the consistency of results between replicate studies and the coherence of 
effects across a variety of different pathophysiologically or logically 
interrelated epidemiologic health outcomes, such as respiratory symptoms, 
exacerbations of respiratory diseases, use of health care, sick absenteeism, or, 
among the most sensitive subjects, mortality. Demonstration of a dose-response 
association is crucial and has been shown in many studies. Valid studies may use 
varied indicators of the air pollution mixtures, such as particulate matter, 
NO2, SO2, or others. However, epidemiology is incapable of investigating the 
biologic pathophysiologic mechanisms, which require experimental studies. Such 
studies may increase the biologic plausibility of epidemiologic findings. Given 
the common sources of many of the air pollution indicators used in epidemiology, 
a knowledge of pathophysiologic mechanisms is not a prerequisite for public 
health action aimed at improving air quality in cities.

PMID: 9381088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1996 Dec 14;126(50):2165-74.

[Are inhaled dust particles harmful for our lungs?].

[Article in German]

Brändli O(1).

Author information:
(1)Zürcher Höhenklinik Wald, Faltigberg.

Particles with diameters ranging from less than 0.02 to more than 100 microns 
and in concentration up to 120 micrograms/m3 daily average TSP (total suspended 
particles) are measurable in the air of Swiss cities and responsible for the 
decrease of visibility on the Swiss Plateau and south of the Alps. The particle 
size shows a typical distribution: the coarse particles (> 2.5 microns mass 
median diameter) are mostly of natural origin (plants, pollen, earth particles) 
and are deposited in the upper airways. The fine particles (PM2.5 < 2.5 microns) 
are predominantly deposited into the alveolar space. These fine and ultrafine 
particles (< 0.02 microns) are produced by the burning of fossil fuels or by 
photochemical reactions. By bypassing the mucociliary and cellular defense 
mechanisms, fine particles can invade the lung parenchyma and cause an 
inflammatory response. The additional chemical layering of a carbon core by 
nitrates, sulfates and other organic materials and metals such as iron cause 
greater local oxidative and/or carcinogenic damage than in the vaporized state. 
In comparing worldwide epidemiological studies, there seems to be a cohesive and 
consistent relationship between increases of particle concentration and the 
increase of mortality (mostly among patients over 65 with concomitant lung and 
heart diseases and among smokers) and morbidity (bronchitis, pneumonia, COPD, 
and, less convincingly, asthma). An increase in daily average PM10 (particles < 
10 microns) is correlated with an increase in mortality not related to accidents 
and suicides of 1.0% for the same and/or the following days. In Switzerland, 
mean annual concentrations of 14-53 micrograms/m3 TSP or 10-33 micrograms/m3 
PM10, well below the national standard (annual mean TSP 70 micrograms/m3) have 
been measured in rural and urban areas. Even at these concentrations an increase 
in respiratory symptoms and a decrease in lung function, without evidence for a 
"safe" threshold, have been observed in the Swiss study of air pollution and 
lung diseases in adults (SAPALDIA). Although the noxious effects of the 
particles cannot be clearly separated from the effect of other pollutants (e.g. 
NOx, SO2, ozone) in complex pollutant mixtures, the emission standards and 
national standards for ambient air should be revised, in particular by adding a 
standard for fine particles (e.g. PM10 or PM2.5).

PMID: 9005526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Arch Environ Health. 1993 Jul-Aug;48(4):213-20. doi: 
10.1080/00039896.1993.9940362.

Associations of London, England, daily mortality with particulate matter, sulfur 
dioxide, and acidic aerosol pollution.

Ito K(1), Thurston GD, Hayes C, Lippmann M.

Author information:
(1)Nelson Institute of Environmental Medicine, New York University Medical 
Center, Tuxedo.

During the extreme pollution episodes of 1952 and 1962 in London, England, 
excesses in daily mortality were clearly evident. In this study, we examined 
daily British Smoke, sulfur dioxide, acid aerosols, and weather variables for 
their short-term associations with daily mortality in the more typical 
(nonepisodic) winters of 1965-1972. Consideration of the acid aerosol data was 
of special interest because this chemical component has been suspected as a 
causal agent in past episodes. Temporal lag structures between the variables 
were examined after removal of long-term components from each series in order to 
obtain "rational" cross-correlations. Significant associations between same-day 
and lagged pollution variables and mortality were found. Alternative regression 
models with pollution and weather variables were also developed. The 
coefficients obtained were applied to the 1962 pollution episode to examine the 
continuity of the estimated slopes. The pollution-predicted deaths fit the 
observed deaths well, which supports the applicability of such deviation-derived 
coefficients to the absolute scale. These models were also employed to estimate 
mean excess daily deaths attributed hypothetically to air pollution. On average, 
mean effect ranged from 2-7% of all deaths during the nonepisodic winters in 
Greater London, but the 95% confidence intervals of these estimates overlapped 
for all model specifications examined. This estimated pollutant mixture "effect" 
cannot be attributed to a particular pollutant because of a lack of quantitative 
information on the relative downward biases caused by both analytical errors and 
errors in the spatial representativeness of each respective pollution index.

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1993.9940362
PMID: 8357269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
user: 请您只筛选出与ICD10中CVD相关的疾病的文章，然后文章题目用英文名字，然后介绍使用方法和结果，标号就用原本的标号
assistant: /n Here are the selected articles related to cardiovascular diseases (CVD) from the ICD-10 classification, with titles in English and summaries of methods and results:

---

### **201. The triggering of myocardial infarction by fine particles is enhanced when particles are enriched in secondary species**  
- **Methods**: Case-crossover study of 1,563 transmural myocardial infarctions (MIs) in New Jersey (2004–2006). PM2.5 species concentrations (sulfate, nitrate, elemental carbon, organic carbon, ammonium) were modeled.  
- **Results**: Highest odds ratios (ORs) for MI were observed on days with high sulfate (OR = 1.13), nitrate (OR = 1.18), and ammonium mass fractions, and low elemental carbon. Secondary PM2.5 components were linked to acute MI risk.  

---

### **203. Air particulate matter and cardiovascular disease: a narrative review**  
- **Methods**: Review of epidemiological and experimental studies on PM2.5 and CVD.  
- **Results**: PM2.5 associated with myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, arrhythmias, and venous thromboembolism. Susceptibility higher in elderly, diabetics, and coronary artery disease patients.  

---

### **204. Synergy between particles and nitrogen dioxide on emergency hospital admissions for cardiac diseases in Hong Kong**  
- **Methods**: Time-series analysis (1998–2007) of emergency cardiac admissions and air pollution (PM10, NO2).  
- **Results**: Strongest joint effect when PM10 and NO2 were both high. PM10 + NO2 increased cardiac admissions by 0.55% and 1.20%, respectively, when the other pollutant was high.  

---

### **208. Joint effects of job strain and road-traffic and occupational noise on myocardial infarction**  
- **Methods**: Case-control study in Stockholm (1992–1994) with 1,252 MI cases. Exposures: job strain, road-traffic noise, occupational noise.  
- **Results**: Combined exposure to noise and job strain increased MI risk (OR = 2.27 for all three exposures).  

---

### **212. Ambient air pollutants and acute case-fatality of cerebro-cardiovascular events: Takashima Stroke and AMI Registry, Japan (1988–2004)**  
- **Methods**: Case-crossover analysis of stroke/AMI mortality and air pollution (SPM, SO2, NO2, O3).  
- **Results**: NO2 associated with increased stroke case-fatality (OR = 1.65 for highest quartile). No significant associations for AMI.  

---

### **213. Environmental pollutants and stroke-related hospital admissions**  
- **Methods**: Time-series analysis in São José dos Campos, Brazil (2007–2008). Pollutants: PM10, SO2, O3.  
- **Results**: PM10 linked to stroke hospitalizations (RR = 1.013 per 10 µg/m³ increase).  

---

### **214. Identification of chemical components of combustion emissions that affect pro-atherosclerotic vascular responses in mice**  
- **Methods**: Exposed ApoE⁻/⁻ mice to diesel/gasoline emissions, wood smoke, or coal emissions. Measured vascular biomarkers.  
- **Results**: SO2, NH3, NOx, and CO were most predictive of vascular toxicity. Particulate components ranked lower.  

---

### **219. A comparison of vascular effects from complex and individual air pollutants indicates a role for monoxide gases and volatile hydrocarbons**  
- **Methods**: Exposed ApoE⁻/⁻ mice to various pollutants (CO, NO, NO2, SOA). Measured vascular toxicity markers.  
- **Results**: CO and NO induced vascular effects (ET-1, MMP-9). No effect from NO2 or secondary organic aerosols.  

---

### **221. Ozone and cardiovascular injury**  
- **Methods**: Review of epidemiological and experimental evidence on ozone and CVD.  
- **Results**: Ozone linked to increased CVD mortality via oxidative stress and inflammation.  

---

### **228. Ozone modifies associations between temperature and cardiovascular mortality: analysis of the NMMAPS data**  
- **Methods**: Time-series analysis (1987–2000) in 95 US communities. Examined O3-temperature interactions.  
- **Results**: O3 amplified temperature-CVD mortality associations. Highest risk in summer (OR = 1.36 per 10°C increase).  

---

### **230. Associations of fine and ultrafine particulate air pollution with stroke mortality in an area of low air pollution levels**  
- **Methods**: Time-series analysis in Helsinki (1998–2004). Pollutants: PM2.5, ultrafine particles, CO.  
- **Results**: PM2.5 and CO associated with stroke mortality in warm seasons (7.4% and 8.3% increases, respectively).  

---

### **234. A new model for investigating the mortality effects of multiple air pollutants in air pollution mortality time-series studies**  
- **Methods**: Proposed weighted model for disentangling effects of correlated pollutants (PM10, CO, NO2, O3).  
- **Results**: Improved precision over standard multi-pollutant models. Applied to US county data.  

---

### **242. Air pollution and daily mortality in three U.S. counties**  
- **Methods**: Generalized additive models for PM10, CO, NO2, SO2, O3 and mortality (1987–1995).  
- **Results**: Gases (CO, NO2) showed stronger associations with CVD mortality than PM10.  

---

### **246. Air pollution and mortality in Philadelphia, 1974–1988**  
- **Methods**: Poisson regression for TSP, SO2, O3, and mortality.  
- **Results**: TSP and SO2 associated with ~1% increase in daily mortality. O3 effect persisted in multi-pollutant models.  

---

### **Key Takeaways**:  
1. **PM2.5 and secondary components** (sulfate, nitrate) are strongly linked to MI and stroke.  
2. **Gaseous pollutants** (NO2, CO, O3) often show independent or synergistic effects with particles.  
3. **Multi-pollutant models** are critical but challenged by collinearity.  
4. **Vulnerable groups**: Elderly, diabetics, and those with pre-existing CVD are at higher risk.  

Let me know if you'd like further details on any study!
user: ，前面几个字不用管，文章题目保留英文，然后方法和结果用中文输出给我
assistant: /n 以下是筛选出的与心血管疾病（CVD）相关的研究文章，保留英文标题，并以中文总结方法和结果：

---

### **201. The triggering of myocardial infarction by fine particles is enhanced when particles are enriched in secondary species**  
- **方法**：采用病例交叉设计，分析2004-2006年美国新泽西州1,563例透壁性心肌梗死（MI）患者数据，结合PM2.5化学成分（硫酸盐、硝酸盐、元素碳等）的模型预测浓度。  
- **结果**：硫酸盐（OR=1.13）、硝酸盐（OR=1.18）和铵盐质量分数较高的日子，MI风险显著升高，而元素碳含量低时风险更高。二次生成的PM2.5组分与急性MI触发密切相关。  

---

### **203. Air particulate matter and cardiovascular disease: a narrative review**  
- **方法**：综述流行病学和实验研究，探讨PM2.5与心血管疾病的关联。  
- **结果**：PM2.5与心肌梗死、卒中、心力衰竭、心律失常和静脉血栓栓塞相关，老年人和糖尿病患者风险更高。  

---

### **204. Synergy between particles and nitrogen dioxide on emergency hospital admissions for cardiac diseases in Hong Kong**  
- **方法**：时间序列分析（1998-2007年香港数据），评估PM10和NO2对急诊心脏住院的单独及联合效应。  
- **结果**：PM10和NO2同时处于高浓度时协同效应最强，两者分别增加0.55%和1.20%的住院风险（滞后0天）。  

---

### **208. Joint effects of job strain and road-traffic and occupational noise on myocardial infarction**  
- **方法**：病例对照研究（1992-1994年斯德哥尔摩数据），分析工作压力、交通噪声和职业噪声对MI的联合影响。  
- **结果**：同时暴露于噪声和工作压力的人群MI风险最高（OR=2.27），20%的对照组存在此类多重暴露。  

---

### **212. Ambient air pollutants and acute case-fatality of cerebro-cardiovascular events: Takashima Stroke and AMI Registry, Japan (1988–2004)**  
- **方法**：病例交叉分析日本高岛地区卒中/急性心肌梗死（AMI）死亡率与空气污染（SPM、SO2、NO2、O3）的关系。  
- **结果**：NO2最高四分位浓度与卒中死亡风险增加65%相关，但对AMI无显著影响。  

---

### **213. Environmental pollutants and stroke-related hospital admissions**  
- **方法**：巴西圣何塞坎普斯市时间序列分析（2007-2008年），评估PM10、SO2、O3与卒中住院的关联。  
- **结果**：PM10每增加10 µg/m³，卒中住院风险上升1.3%（RR=1.013）。  

---

### **214. Identification of chemical components of combustion emissions that affect pro-atherosclerotic vascular responses in mice**  
- **方法**：ApoE⁻/⁻小鼠暴露于柴油/汽油尾气、木材烟雾或模拟燃煤排放，检测血管炎症标志物。  
- **结果**：SO2、NH3、NOx和CO对血管毒性预测性最强，颗粒物成分影响较小。  

---

### **219. A comparison of vascular effects from complex and individual air pollutants indicates a role for monoxide gases and volatile hydrocarbons**  
- **方法**：ApoE⁻/⁻小鼠暴露于单一或混合污染物（CO、NO、NO2等），评估血管内皮损伤。  
- **结果**：CO和NO独立诱导血管内皮素-1（ET-1）和基质金属蛋白酶（MMP-9）升高，NO2和二次有机气溶胶无显著影响。  

---

### **221. Ozone and cardiovascular injury**  
- **方法**：综述臭氧（O3）对心血管系统的病理机制研究。  
- **结果**：O3通过氧化应激和炎症反应增加CVD死亡风险，尤其在夏季污染高峰期间。  

---

### **228. Ozone modifies associations between temperature and cardiovascular mortality: analysis of the NMMAPS data**  
- **方法**：分析美国95个社区数据（1987-2000年），探讨O3与温度对CVD死亡的交互作用。  
- **结果**：高温与高O3协同增加CVD死亡风险，夏季效应最显著（OR=1.36）。  

---

### **230. Associations of fine and ultrafine particulate air pollution with stroke mortality in an area of low air pollution levels**  
- **方法**：赫尔辛基时间序列分析（1998-2004年），研究PM2.5、超细颗粒和CO与卒中死亡的关系。  
- **结果**：暖季PM2.5和CO浓度升高分别导致卒中死亡风险增加7.4%和8.3%。  

---

### **234. A new model for investigating the mortality effects of multiple air pollutants in air pollution mortality time-series studies**  
- **方法**：提出加权模型，解决多污染物（PM10、CO、NO2、O3）共线性问题。  
- **结果**：新模型较传统多污染物模型精度更高，适用于小样本地区分析。  

---

### **242. Air pollution and daily mortality in three U.S. counties**  
- **方法**：广义加性模型分析1987-1995年PM10、CO、NO2等污染物与死亡率的关系。  
- **结果**：气体污染物（CO、NO2）与CVD死亡的关联强于PM10。  

---

### **246. Air pollution and mortality in Philadelphia, 1974–1988**  
- **方法**：泊松回归分析TSP、SO2、O3对每日死亡率的影响。  
- **结果**：TSP和SO2每增加一个四分位间距，死亡率上升约1%，O3效应在多污染物模型中仍显著。  

---

### **核心结论**  
1. **关键污染物**：PM2.5及其二次组分（硫酸盐、硝酸盐）、NO2、CO和O3是CVD主要风险因素。  
2. **协同效应**：高温与O3、PM10与NO2的联合暴露风险显著升高。  
3. **人群差异**：老年人、糖尿病患者及已有CVD者更易受空气污染影响。  

如需具体研究的详细解读，可进一步探讨！
